	text	labels
1244	"Publications and Workbooks by TransforMED TransforMED Centers of Excellence Consultants are sharing their learnings on how to transform a practice into a high-performing patient-centered medical home by partnering with MGMA to publish a Transformation Series of workbooks . The workbooks provide practices concise , step-by-step information on relevant topics in health care delivery and will be instrumental in ensuring success for your practice . The TransforMED Patient-Centered Model provides the background for the workbook series ; instrumental in ensuring success for the practice as conditions in primary care continue to shift . Authored by TransforMED facilitators and published by MGMA , a total of 19 workbooks in the Transformation Series are planned . The Transformation Series Determining the scope of change for a practice before implementing the patient-centered medical home ( PCMH ) model is a challenge for physicians and practice leaders . This workbook provides a review of the key elements – including the core elements of leadership , teamwork , communication , and change planning – that will impact a practice whose leaders are considering the PCMH model . Practice leaders can use the strategic and operational information and planning tools in this workbook to prepare the practice for effective , lasting change . In the PCMH model , primary care practices guide and advise their patients beyond the practice setting , often through cooperative alliances and structured relationships . Care coordination expands the definition of team to include all providers , locations and resources necessary to meet the patient's health care needs – specialists , hospital facilities , home health facilities , pharmacists , social workers – any health care entity that affects the patient's health care . Effective care coordination provides for an understanding of each team memberâs role and responsibility at the time of the patient interaction and a clearly defined flow of accurate information between team members . The new medical home health care paradigm means that primary care physician must implement systems and transform workflows to proactively manage their patient population instead of simply "" reacting "" to those who enter the practice for episodic care . Making this change requires a shift from incremental clinical changes to practice-wide reorganization . This handbook walks you through the practical changes your team will need to make to ensure success . "" Access "" is a critical factor in the transformation to the patient-centered medical home and is key to successful population management . Â It can be a difficult subject to navigate – encompassing strategies as widely-divergent as same-day appointments to group visits to drop-in visits . This workbook simplifies the decision making and provides tips to successfully implementing elements of patient-centered access in your practice . TransforMED Facilitator , Sheila Richmeier , MS , RN , CMPE has written a new book entitled Leading Your Clinical Team : A Comprehensive Guide to Optimizing Productivity and Quality . Practice managers will find the information in this book to be a solid overview as well as a resource for ongoing solutions . This newest addition to the Fast Facts series provides a concise and detailed introduction to the medical office as well as tips for maximizing the nurse's role . Students and nurses new to the field will find the information contained in this short volume essential , as they start an exciting career as a medical office nurse . Using the abridged Fast Facts style , the book examines important topics such as the relationship with the physician , salary , reimbursement , administering medication , and the medical home . The book additionally discusses the use of technology and its impact on the patient's health across the continuum . The author also clears up many of the misconceptions of medical office nursing , emphasizing the importance and rapidly expanding role of the medical office nurse . Why I wrote this book Direct observation of the powerful impact of the proper training and development of new supervisors in medical practices prompted TransforMED PEF Sheila Richmeier to write her newest hands-on guide . Too often , says Richmeier , an employee is "" placed in a supervisory position even though they lack meaningful supervisory experience – and as if by magic they are supposed to know how to do this critical job . """	Promotion
707	The Wastepack Group is the leading support services business providing outsourced solutions for recycling . Our 700 customers include many household names . We deliver best value and assurance to customers by taking operational , administrative and compliance responsibility . We deploy the optimal network of services and suppliers to meet the needs of our customers , through a single point of contact . The Wastepack Group has two trading companies , each providing a distinct service : Wastepack Ltd -- meeting the packaging waste requirements for businesses over a certain size to ensure they recycle a certain proportion of the packaging they are responsible for Our people Most competitors can not provide UK-wide services and must subcontract . This is not their core skill . Our people are expert outsourcers of all services . We have a deep knowledge of the waste and recycling markets . Our staff pursue excellence in customer account management , service levels , KPI reporting and managing operational processes to reduce customer costs . Our growth record shows our success in meeting customer requirements . We operate in a dynamic industry and are not complacent . Our people will be restless in the pursuit of excellence and innovation as new challenges and opportunities arise . Our competitive advantage We are the leading support services business in the sector . Many competitors are asset-based organisations which need to focus on utilising these assets and selling in-house services . We select the optimal services and suppliers for each customer . To find out more about us , take a look at our Corporate Information	Promotion
646	Victoria Reviews 2001 and Gives Us the Lowdown on ' A Mind of It 's Own ' Where was the video shot ? The video was shot in Windsor and Tunbridge Wells . How much involvement did you have in this video because you were quite involved in the ' Not Such An Innocent Girl ' video ? It worked great for me because for this video I worked very closely with two guys called Adam and Simon . They were really cool because they knew exactly what I wanted to get across in this video . It was very natural and they made it really good fun . They 're really cool guys and it was good because I managed to put my own team around me . The cameraman Robbie was very sweet and very artistic . It was nice that I had picked everybody around me and we all worked well together on the video . That was really exciting . Do you have a favourite part of the video ? Any favourite scenes ? I think my favourite part of the video was when I was in my jeans and vest because that 's what I 'm like when I 'm at home . That 's really me . I enjoyed bouncing on the bed . It 's basically about having a laugh and not worrying about ' ooh do I look great or do I look sexy enough ' . It 's not all about that at all . It 's about me being me and looking like me and not trying to hard to be anything else . There 's no point in me trying to be sexy cause I 'm just not ! I think a lot of people would disagree with you . I do n't think so but I really wanted to be myself and I had my friends , family and people around me . I 'm not trying to hard so I hope that came across in the video . What have been the highlights of your year so far ? I think one big highlight professionally would be finishing the record . Two years ago I dreamed of having a solo album . To have a solo album and to call it Victoria Beckham is all totally me . The highlight would be having my own album . What are your plans for 2002 ? I do n't know what my plans are for next year . Mainly just to work the album really . I really believe in it and have put so much work into it and it 's a really good record . I have faith in it so would like success with the album next year . What new acts out there do you rate ? New acts out there that I really rate are Alicia Keys . I think she is really good . I love Blue and I 'm really good friends with the guys . I think they are really cool .	Opinion/Argumentation
1121	"We noticed that you 're using an unsupported browser . The TripAdvisor website may not display properly . We support the following browsers : Windows : Internet Explorer , Mozilla Firefox , Google Chrome . Mac : Safari . Book your hotel on TripAdvisor and you could win a great trip ! St Martins Lane London Hotel Trusted partner . We work with to make your booking as easy as possible . Secure payments . We use industry-leading practices to keep your information secure . Book on Enter dates for best prices powered by Best prices for : 1 room Check In - Check Out 1 room 2 rooms 1 guest 2 guests Check In Check Out Check In Check Out Please enter your travel dates to continue Check Availability Book on or compare prices from up to 200 sites including : TripAdvisor members only . Login for exclusive access to hotel deals up to 40 % off Rooms & rates for St Martins Lane London Hotel We 're finding you the best rooms at the lowest prices from our partner . Book on Check In Check Out 1 room 2 guests 4 Standard Room Getting you more information on this room See More Free Cancellation Best Price / night taxes & fees Select Show available rooms for St Martins Lane London Hotel We 're sorry , there are no available rooms for this property on TripAdvisor . Please change dates or see offers from our partners . 2,385 Reviews from our TripAdvisor Community Read reviews that mention : All reviews covent garden mood lighting asia de cuba restaurant blind spot leicester square tube floor to ceiling windows trendy hotel garden room cocktail bar west end national gallery bottle of champagne deluxe room hotel bar fantastic hotel central location an upgrade gymbox sml starck Review tags are currently only available for English language reviews . I had booked St Martins Lane Hotel as the base for a surprise birthday celebration for my wife . Two other couples were joining us and from around a month before our stay I had been in email contact several times with Belle , Guest Experiences Manager , to arrange all of the moving parts involved with 6 people arriving at different times ... More Conveniently situated for lively West End , have no hesitation in choosing to stay there in the future . Very attentive staff throughout our stay where politeness and customer service were always at the top of their agenda ! Review collected in partnership with Morgans Hotel Group This business uses tools provided by TripAdvisor ( or one of its official Review Collection Partners ) to encourage and collect guest reviews , including this one . Helpful ? Thank Andy B Report Isabelle F , Guest Experience Manager at St Martins Lane London Hotel , responded to this review Andy B , Thank you so much for this fantastic review we really appreciate it ! It makes me so proud to hear how memorable our gracious teams friendly and attentive was during your stay and how you would no hesitate to join us again . Please contact me before your next stay on isabelle.fowkes@mhgc.com so that I can personally welcome you back .... More This was my first time at St. Martins Lane Hotel and I was very impressed . I 've stayed at quite a few of the 5 * hotels in London and have to say , I prefer this hotel . From the moment you walk in to reception , you pick up on the amazing vibe within . The staff are friendly and efficient and ca n't do ... More Review collected in partnership with Morgans Hotel Group This business uses tools provided by TripAdvisor ( or one of its official Review Collection Partners ) to encourage and collect guest reviews , including this one . Helpful ? Thank Michaela D Report Isabelle F , Guest Experience Manager at St Martins Lane London Hotel , responded to this review Michaela D , Thank you for your fab review of your first stay with us at St Martins Lane , it is amazing to read what a wonderful experience you had . Both our original design and our refreshing service is something we pride ourselves on so thank you for highlighting how much you loved this with you glowing words . I ca n't wait ... More We went for drinks before going up the road for lunch at Tredwells . It was pouring with rain but my mood was lifted by the charming man who opened the door . The lobby is stylish & spacious . I was shown to "" The Den "" which has some amusing artwork on the walls . Take a good look at each piece . We enjoyed ... More Helpful ? Thank sue f Report Isabelle F , Guest Experience Manager at St Martins Lane London Hotel , responded to this review sue f , Thank you so much for taking the time to share your review ! Our stunning speakeasy bar Blind Spot which you can find behind the façade of a boutique tea counter and a secret golden hand-shaped handle is where you can find the most delicious bespoke cocktails bursting with flavours and a late night vibe . I am so glad ... More The hotel was very nice , centrally located , clean and friendly . We had a very pleasant stay . Location was perfect , we had a lovely breakfast which was included . The staff was helpful and pleasant . Would definitly go back ! Review collected in partnership with Morgans Hotel Group This business uses tools provided by TripAdvisor ( or one of its official Review Collection Partners ) to encourage and collect guest reviews , including this one . Helpful ? Thank 681stacye Report Isabelle F , Guest Experience Manager at St Martins Lane London Hotel , responded to this review 681stacye , Thanks so much for taking the time to write a review , we really appricate it ! So fab to hear how much you love our amazing location in the heart of the West End and our lovely team . We would love to welcome you back ! Hopefully see you soon . Warm wishes , Belle More Wow how lucky were we ? Upgrade to a suite at the back of the hotel , so no noise from revellers in St Martin's Lane ! Loved the clean white decor . The space was filled with simple but elegant furniture . Nothing was out of place and the mood lighting was simply stunning . Loved the stand alone bath as well as a fantastic ... More Helpful ? 1 Thank Moggette Report Isabelle F , Guest Experience Manager at St Martins Lane London Hotel , responded to this review Moggette , It is fabulous to hear how much you loved your upgrade to a suite with a view ! Thank you for all of your wonderful comments and for taking the time to review your experience . Looking forward ro welcoming you back soon ! Warm wishes , Belle More Perfectly located for sightseeing / theatres . Bedroom stunning and the most comfortable hotel bed I 've ever slept in . No tea / coffee making facilities in room , but just had to call housekeeping and a tray was brought to our room within 5 mins . Breakfast was first class . All in all a fabulous place to stay in central London . Highly recommend it . Helpful ? 1 Thank Lynne C Report Isabelle F , Guest Experience Manager at St Martins Lane London Hotel , responded to this review Lynne C , How comfy our are stunning white beds ? I could stay there all day ! Thank you for all of your lovely feedback from your weekend stay , I am over the moon that you had such a fabulous experience . Please let me know when you will next be joining us ! Catch me on isabelle.fowkes@mhgc.com . Warm wishes , Belle More A couple of blocks from Trafalgar Square , steps to theatres , a short walk to 3 tube stations you can not beat St Martins Lane for location and being in the heart of the action . Yet when you step into your room you enter a peaceful , quiet , calming space . You would never know there were thousands of people roaring away just below . Our room was spacious even with ... More Helpful ? 1 Thank Paul S Report Isabelle F , Guest Experience Manager at St Martins Lane London Hotel , responded to this review Paul S , You 're right ! St Martins Lane is definitely an oasis in the heart of the bustling West End where our guests can relax in our luxerious and original surroundings . It is wonderful to hear how much you loved our spacious rooms and wonderful team who always wow our guests with their attentive service . Your friends at St Martins Lane ... More I appreciated this hotel which is located very close to Picadilly - the room is very quiet , clean and convenient . I do recommand this hotel either for business or leisure . Mr Concierge is ressourcefull to help you to find a restaurant even late . a good stay Review collected in partnership with Morgans Hotel Group This business uses tools provided by TripAdvisor ( or one of its official Review Collection Partners ) to encourage and collect guest reviews , including this one . Helpful ? 1 Thank S6141LZmarcc Report Isabelle F , Guest Experience Manager at St Martins Lane London Hotel , responded to this review S6141LZmarcc , It is fabulous to hear that you were able to join us on your business trip and how much of a fantastic time you had with us . Thank you in particular for your lovely feedback about our simply amazing Concierge team who amaze our guests with their knowledge of all the hottest restaurants . I look forward to welcoming you ... More Lovely restaurant , food , cocktails and service all excellent . Bedrooms are stunning with the most comfortable bed and pillows , best mini bar I 've ever seen !! Great location too for theatres , restaurants and shops . Helpful ? 1 Thank Gill B Report Isabelle F , Guest Experience Manager at St Martins Lane London Hotel , responded to this review Gill B , Thank you for your brilliant review , it was wonderful having you here ! I am over the moon that you had a fab experience in Asia de Cuba our iconic fusion restaurant and you 're right our mini bars are just too tempting with all of their naughty treats perfect for a midnight snack . Ca n't wait to welcome you back ... More Staying in Covent Garden Neighbourhood Profile Covent Garden Whether you 're headed here to check out the multitude of shops , theaters , cafes , pubs , and restaurants , or simply to be among the multitude of people who pass through this pretty part of town , you 'll love soaking up the festive and historic atmosphere in and around Covent Garden . Even if you do n't have tickets to the opera or a show at one of the many famous theaters here , do n't be surprised if find yourself captivated by some impromptu act of a street performer wowing the crowds in Covent Garden's Piazza . If you do have tickets , you 'll be pleased to note that many of the local eateries accommodate theatergoers with prix fixe menus , early dinners , and later than usual opening hours . Located in the bustling Theatre district in London's Covent Garden , St Martins Lane is a dramatic and daring evolution on English luxury . This boutique hotel retains all the youthful , unexpected charm of a London hideaway , at the very heart of the art-loving , energetic West End . St Martins Lane is truly a hidden gem – a newly renovated lobby welcomes guests into high-concept design with the sophistication of a modern museum and the joy of a carnival light show . The soaring and theatrical space , a reinterpretation of Philippe Starck's original lobby , plays with colour , proportion , and movement in a way that energises every guest and inspires active self-expression for the duration of the stay . Guests can begin their journey in the Den , a modern gathering place and decompression zone . Situated just off the lobby , the Den is the perfect place to enjoy Afternoon Tea , play a game of backgammon or sip on a Gin & Tonic . The decor is warm and sophisticated with a tongue-in-cheek British flair – even the art on the walls is irreverent , animating the space with larger-than-life portraits and visual puns . Embrace the journey with a striking new look from London's finest hairdressers at the neighbouring Jones & Payne salon . Luxurious treatments and innovative vision make this salon a place of new beginnings and creative expression . At night , guests will find a hidden entrance to Blind Spot , an innovative cocktail bar , behind the tea counter's posh facade . Blind Spot is a golden cocktail sanctuary designed like a modern hunting lodge and inspired by the colours and aromas of exotic tea leaves . Light and colour continue to enhance the guest experience in every corner of St Martins Lane - interactive light displays brighten each room , transforming them into spaces of youthful excitement and changing mosaics of colour . Special garden rooms offer private patios and floor-to-ceiling windows that invite the vibrancy of the city into every room . At the newly renovated Asia de Cuba , concept chef Luis Pous joins restaurateur Jeffrey Chodorow to offer a dynamic Latin-Asian fusion menu in an inspiring space . Guests can explore all the unpredictable delights of London and end the day with an invigorating workout at Gymbox Covent Garden , London's most unorthodox fitness experience .... more less Additional Information about St Martins Lane London Hotel Address : 45 St. Martin's Lane , London WC2N 4HX , England Region : United Kingdom > England > London > Covent Garden , Leicester Square / Shaftesbury Avenue Price Range : £ 188 - £ 459 ( Based on Average Rates for a Standard Room ) Hotel Class : 5 star – St Martins Lane London Hotel 5 * Number of rooms : 204 Reservation Options : TripAdvisor is proud to partner with Hotels.com , Booking.com , Expedia and Agoda so you can book your St Martins Lane London Hotel reservations with confidence . We help millions of travellers each month to find the perfect hotel for both holiday and business trips , always with the best discounts and special offers . Also Known As : St Martins Lane London Hotel London Hotel St Martins Lane Hotel Style : # 21 Family Hotel in London # 58 Business Hotel in London # 62 Romantic Hotel in London # 64 Luxury Hotel in London Is This Your TripAdvisor Listing ? Own or manage this property ? Claim your listing for free to respond to reviews , update your profile and much more . Questions & Answers Here 's what travellers have asked , with answers from St Martins Lane London Hotel staff and other travellers . See which rooms travellers prefer "" We had a corner studio room which gave us good light and great views . The double glazing meant it was peaceful "" * TripAdvisor LLC is not a booking agent and does not charge any service fees to users of our site ... ( more ) We noticed that you 're using an unsupported browser . The TripAdvisor website may not display properly . We support the following browsers : Windows : Internet Explorer , Mozilla Firefox , Google Chrome . Mac : Safari . TripAdvisor LLC is not responsible for content on external web sites . Taxes , fees not included for deals content . Welcome back ! Prices may have changed while you were gone . Please refresh the page to see the latest prices for St Martins Lane London Hotel . Refresh Prices Price Finder is your ultimate hotel booking tool , checking hundreds of sites to help you find the lowest prices . How to enter the "" Book a Stay , Win a Getaway "" sweepstakes : • Book your hotel directly on TripAdvisor . Find your ideal hotel on TripAdvisor . co. uk , then look for "" TripAdvisor "" in the list of pricing options . Select your room and then complete your booking right here on TripAdvisor , without leaving our site . Once you 've booked , you 'll be entered automatically . • Or , book your hotel by clicking off to any partner site from TripAdvisor . Once your booking is complete , use the entry form to enter . How it works : • One ( 1 ) entry per person during the entry period . No purchase necessary . • Entry period begins on 18 October 2016 00 : 01am EST and ends on 20 November 2016 23 : 59pm EST . • "" Book a Stay , Win a Getaway "" is open to legal residents of the United States and United Kingdom who are 18 years of age or older . • A random drawing will be conducted on or about 22 November 2016 by the Administrator from all eligible entries received during the entry period . • Winners will be notified by 9 December 2016 . Learn more . close TripAdvisor uses cookies to improve your site experience . Learn more or change your settings . By continuing , you consent to our cookies ."	Promotion
822	"Fanny - First In A Long Time : The Reprise Recordings Ltd Edition 4CD Released 2002 . Ltd edition . Only 5000 copies . First In A Long Time is a four-CD boxed set containing Fanny's entire 1970-73 Reprise output , plus much more . The studio albums Fanny ( 1970 ) , Charity Ball ( 1971 ) , Fanny Hill ( 1972 ) , and the Todd Rundgren-produced Mother's Pride ( 1973 ) have been remastered from original master tapes and are included in their entirety . Also included are exclusive songs from the highly sought-after Canadian version of Fanny , which was pressed from the wrong masters and issued in an initial run of a few thousand copies . Additional bonus tracks include Wild Honey demos from 1969 , Reprise promo spots , informal "" Kitchen Tapes "" recordings , live tracks from 1972-73 , and many outtakes and alternate versions . A special 52-page book includes an exclusive 2002 interview with June and Jean Millington and Alice de Buhr , plus rare photos and tributes by David Bowie , Bonnie Raitt , Jill Sobule , and others . Come And Hold Me ( 2 : 46 ) I Just Realized ( 4 : 00 ) Candlelighter Man ( 3 : 35 ) Conversation With A Cop ( 3 : 09 ) Badge ( 3 : 01 ) Changing Horses ( 3 : 48 ) Bitter Wine ( 3 : 17 ) Take A Message To The Captain ( 3 : 31 ) It Takes A Lot Of Good Lovin ' ( 4 : 25 ) Shade Me ( 4 : 39 ) Seven Roads ( First Version ) ( 4 : 19 ) Charity Ball ( First Version ) ( 2 : 52 ) Place In The Country ( First Version ) ( 3 : 32 ) Changes ( 2 : 16 ) One Step At A Time ( 3 : 03 ) Nowhere To Run ( 3 : 20 ) Seven Roads ( Second Version ) ( 3 : 48 ) Lady's Choice ( 2 : 48 ) New Day ( 3 : 43 ) I Find Myself ( 4 : 04 ) Queen Aretha ( 4 : 20 ) Flame Tree ( 2 : 20 ) Fanny Reprise Records Promo One ( 0 : 23 ) Fanny Reprise Records Promo Two ( 0 : 23 ) Fanny Reprise Records Promo Three ( 0 : 32 ) Charity Ball ( Second Version ) ( 2 : 29 ) What Kind Of Lover ( 2 : 58 ) Cat Fever ( 3 : 23 ) A Person Like You ( 2 : 58 ) Special Care ( 4 : 23 ) What 's Wrong With Me ? ( 1 : 43 ) Soul Child ( 3 : 51 ) You 're The One ( 4 : 10 ) Thinking Of You ( 3 : 25 ) Place In The Country ( Second Version ) ( 3 : 08 ) A Little While Later ( 5 : 40 ) Charity Ball ( Single Version ) ( 2 : 29 ) True Blue ( 1 : 03 ) Candlelighter Man ( 2 : 54 ) Summer Song ( 4 : 07 ) Tomorrow ( 2 : 15 ) Rock Bottom Blues ( Backing Track ) ( 3 : 08 ) Ai n't That Peculiar ( 4 : 05 ) Knock On My Door ( 3 : 19 ) Blind Alley ( 4 : 35 ) You 've Got A Home ( 3 : 47 ) Wonderful Feeling ( 3 : 18 ) Borrowed Time ( 3 : 26 ) Hey Bulldog ( 3 : 58 ) Think About The Children ( 4 : 10 ) Rock Bottom Blues ( 3 : 08 ) Sound And The Fury ( 3 : 04 ) The First Time ( 4 : 57 ) Rock Bottom Blues ( Original Vocal ) ( 3 : 14 ) Wonderful Feeling ( Single Version ) ( 3 : 16 ) Young And Dumb ( 3 : 33 ) Hey Bulldog ( 4 : 41 ) Summer Song ( 4 : 44 ) It Takes A Lot Of Good Lovin ' ( 3 : 51 ) Badge ( 3 : 31 ) Young And Dumb ( 4 : 57 ) Last Night I Had A Dream ( 4 : 54 ) Ai n't That Peculiar ( 4 : 35 ) Borrowed Time ( 3 : 30 ) Place In The Country ( 3 : 38 ) Knock On My Door ( 5 : 05 ) Charity Ball ( 5 : 46 ) Lonesome Pine ( 4 : 43 ) Beside Myself ( 4 : 05 ) I 'll Never Be The Same ( 4 : 08 ) All Mine ( 4 : 25 ) Old Milwaukee ( 3 : 12 ) Long Road Home ( 3 : 29 ) Back In My Arms Again ( 3 : 43 ) No Deposit , No Return ( 2 : 27 ) Last Night I Had A Dream ( 3 : 55 ) Long Road Home ( 2 : 55 ) Old Hat ( 4 : 14 ) Solid Gold ( 2 : 55 ) Is It Really You ? ( 5 : 23 ) All Mine ( 3 : 24 ) Summer Song ( 3 : 11 ) Polecat Blues ( 3 : 14 ) Beside Myself ( 3 : 54 ) Regular Guy ( 2 : 25 ) I Need You Need Me ( 4 : 55 ) Feelings ( 1 : 58 ) I 'm Satisfied ( 3 : 08 ) Fanny Reprise Records Promo Four ( 1 : 03 ) ' Till Then ( 0 : 22 )"	Information/Explanation
152	"I 'm a pediatrician and an anesthesiologist , so I put children to sleep for a living . ( Laughter ) And I 'm an academic , so I put audiences to sleep for free . ( Laughter ) But what I actually mostly do is a manage the pain management service at the Packard Children's Hospital up at Stanford in Palo Alto . And it 's from the experience from about 20 or 25 years of doing that that I want to bring to you the message this morning , that pain is a disease . Now most of the time , you think of pain as a symptom of a disease . And that 's true most of the time . It 's the symptom of a tumor or an infection or an inflammation or an operation . But about 10 percent of the time , after the patient has recovered from one of those events , pain persists . It persists for months and oftentimes for years . And when that happens , it is its own disease . And before I tell you about how it is that we think that happens and what we can do about it , I want to show you how it feels for my patients . So imagine , if you will , that I 'm stroking your arm with this feather , as I 'm stroking my arm right now . Now , I want you to imagine that I 'm stroking it with this . Please keep your seat . ( Laughter ) A very different feeling . Now what does it have to do with chronic pain ? Imagine , if you will , these two ideas together . Imagine what your life would be like if I were to stroke it with this feather , but your brain was telling you that this is what you are feeling -- and that is the experience of my patients with chronic pain . In fact , imagine something even worse . Imagine I were to stroke your child's arm with this feather , and their brain [ was ] telling them that they were feeling this hot torch . That was the experience of my patient , Chandler , whom you see in the photograph . As you can see , she 's a beautiful , young woman . She was 16 years old last year when I met her , and she aspired to be a professional dancer . And during the course of one of her dance rehearsals , she fell on her outstretched arm and sprained her wrist . Now you would probably imagine , as she did , that a wrist sprain is a trivial event in a person's life . Wrap it in an ACE bandage , take some ibuprofen for a week or two , and that 's the end of the story . But in Chandler's case , that was the beginning of the story . This is what her arm looked like when she came to my clinic about three months after her sprain . You can see that the arm is discolored , purplish in color . It was cadaverically cold to the touch . The muscles were frozen , paralyzed -- dystonic is how we refer to that . The pain had spread from her wrist to her hands , to her fingertips , from her wrist up to her elbow , almost all the way to her shoulder . But the worst part was , not the spontaneous pain that was there 24 hours a day . The worst part was that she had allodynia , the medical term for the phenomenon that I just illustrated with the feather and with the torch . The lightest touch of her arm -- the touch of a hand , the touch even of a sleeve , of a garment , as she put it on -- caused excruciating , burning pain . How can the nervous system get this so wrong ? How can the nervous system misinterpret an innocent sensation like the touch of a hand and turn it into the malevolent sensation of the touch of the flame . Well you probably imagine that the nervous system in the body is hardwired like your house . In your house , wires run in the wall , from the light switch to a junction box in the ceiling and from the junction box to the light bulb . And when you turn the switch on , the light goes on . And when you turn the switch off , the light goes off . So people imagine the nervous system is just like that . If you hit your thumb with a hammer , these wires in your arm -- that , of course , we call nerves -- transmit the information into the junction box in the spinal cord where new wires , new nerves , take the information up to the brain where you become consciously aware that your thumb is now hurt . But the situation , of course , in the human body is far more complicated than that . Instead of it being the case that that junction box in the spinal cord is just simple where one nerve connects with the next nerve by releasing these little brown packets of chemical information called neurotransmitters in a linear one-on-one fashion , in fact , what happens is the neurotransmitters spill out in three dimensions -- laterally , vertically , up and down in the spinal cord -- and they start interacting with other adjacent cells . These cells , called glial cells , were once thought to be unimportant structural elements of the spinal cord that did nothing more than hold all the important things together , like the nerves . But it turns out the glial cells have a vital role in the modulation , amplification and , in the case of pain , the distortion of sensory experiences . These glial cells become activated . Their DNA starts to synthesize new proteins , which spill out and interact with adjacent nerves . And they start releasing their neurotransmitters . And those neurotransmitters spill out and activate adjacent glial cells , and so on and so forth , until what we have is a positive feedback loop . It 's almost as if somebody came into your home and rewired your walls , so that the next time you turned on the light switch , the toilet flushed three doors down , or your dishwasher went on , or your computer monitor turned off . That 's crazy , but that 's , in fact , what happens with chronic pain . And that 's why pain becomes its own disease . The nervous system has plasticity . It changes , and it morphs in response to stimuli . Well , what do we do about that ? What can we do in a case like Chandler's ? We treat these patients in a rather crude fashion at this point in time . We treat them with symptom-modifying drugs -- pain-killers -- which are , frankly , not very effective for this kind of pain . We take nerves that are noisy and active that should be quiet , and we put them to sleep with local anesthetics . And most importantly , what we do is we use a rigorous , and often uncomfortable , process of physical therapy and occupational therapy to retrain the nerves in the nervous system to respond normally to the activities and sensory experiences that are part of everyday life . And we support all of that with an intensive psychotherapy program to address the despondency , despair and depression that always accompanies severe , chronic pain . It 's successful , as you can see from this video of Chandler , who , two months after we first met her , is now doings a back flip . And I had lunch with her yesterday , because she 's a college student studying dance at Long Beach here . And she 's doing absolutely fantastic . But the future is actually even brighter . The future holds the promise that new drugs will be developed that are not symptom-modifying drugs that simply mask the problem , as we have now , but that will be disease-modifying drugs that will actually go right to the root of the problem and attack those glial cells , or those pernicious proteins that the glial cells elaborate , that spill over and cause this central nervous system wind-up , or plasticity , that so is capable of distorting and amplifying the sensory experience that we call pain . So I have hope that in the future , the prophetic words of George Carlin will be realized , who said , "" My philosophy : No pain , no pain . "" Thank you very much . ( Applause ) </content"	Information/Explanation
671	( Province of Granada - Nearest town is Baza ) A DETACHED BUNGALOW 5 MINUTES INTO THE CAMPO OF BAZA WITH 5000M2 OF ENCLOSED LAND WITH LOTS OF GRAPEVINE , OLIVE , FIG , APRICOT & WALNUT TREES . THE PROPERTY HAS 1 BEDROOM BUT COULD EXTEND , BATHROOM , UTILITY ROOM , LOUNGE WITH FIREPLACE & AN OPEN FITTED KITCHEN , THERE ARE PATIO DOORS IN THE LOUNGE , OUTSIDE THERE IS A STORE CUPBOARD ADJOINING THE HOUSE AND A SEATED PATIO AREA . THERE IS ALSO A SEPARATE BUILDING WITH WINDOWS & DOORS THAT COULD BE A SEPARATE ACCOMMODATION FOR FAMILY & FRIENDS . THE LAND IS ALL FLAT AND HAS LOVELY VIEWS AND A NICE DRIVEWAY , 5 MINS TO THE TOWN OF BAZA , 1 HOUR TO GRANADA , 2 HOURS TO MALAGA	Promotion
810	Seeing that the wind speed is always changing , it is easily to understand that the energy content of the wind is also always varying . But many factors influence these variations , like the weather , the obstacles or the local surface conditions . As experienced during hailstorms or thunderstorms when wind speed and direction both change very frequently because of gusts , turbulence can also be created in areas with a very uneven terrain surface or behind obstacles such as buildings or trees . Wind flows are very irregular , often in whirls in the neighbourhood . Turbulence decreases the possibility of using the energy in the wind effectively for a wind turbine . It also imposes more tear and wear on the wind turbines which is why towers for wind turbines are usually tall enough to avoid turbulence from the wind close to ground level . Diurnal ( night and day ) variations of the wind Generally , wind speeds are higher during the day than during the night . This phenomenon is mainly due to the temperature differences between the sea and the land surfaces generated by the solar activity . The wind is also more turbulent and tends to change direction more frequently during the day than at night . But electricity consumption being higher during the day , the fact that most of the wind energy is produced during daytime represents a great advantage . Seasonal Variations of the Wind As we can see on the graph , wind speeds vary during the year as the weather changes from summer to winter . As example , in temperate zones , winter winds are usually stronger than summer winds . But electricity consumption is also higher in winter than in summer . The use of wind turbine seems therefore particularly well adapted , seeing that wind electricity generally fits well into the electricity consumption pattern . Annual Variation in Wind Energy Wind patters may vary from year to year . But these variations are generally quite small . In the case of Denmark , the output from wind turbines typically varies of from 10 percent . This graph represents the variations of wind speeds with height in the roughness class 2 , assuming that the wind speed is 10m / s at a height of 100 meters . The fact that the wind speed decreases as we move closer to ground level is called wind shear . This phenomenon is crucial in the design of a wind turbine . Indeed , considering a wind turbine with a hub height of 40 meters and a rotor diameter of 40 meters , the previous graph shows that the wind blows at 9.3 m / s when the tip of the blade is in its uppermost position , whereas it blows at only 7.7 m / s when the tip is in the bottom position . Therefore , the forces acting on the rotor blade when it is in its top position are far larger than when it is in its bottom position . The wind speed at a certain height z above the ground is given by : where v is the reference speed , i.e. a wind speed we already know at height z . z is the roughness length in the current wind direction ( height above ground level where the wind speed is theoretically zero ) . z is the reference height , i.e. the height where we know the exact wind speed v ref. To give an example , assuming a roughness length of 0 . 1m a wind speed of 7.7 m / s at 20 m height , the wind speed at 60 m height will be :	Information/Explanation
988	Campion switches cars Friday 2nd December 2005 Tom Campion has switched cars for this weekend's Absolute Media Trophy FF1600 races at Anglesey . The North West Pre 1990 regular has been racing a Crossle 62F this season , but when Anglesey Circuit boss Richard Peacock started to prepare the car for the weekend he realised that the gearbox was in dire need of attention . Campion will be switching to another of the school cars , a Crossle 25F . There will be a FF1600 presence in one of the weekend's other races . Chris Chisnall will once again be wheeling out his Caterham Roadsport to compete in the 7-Type Sports Car races . This time , however , he will be sharing the car with his friend and former Mike Waite Racing team-mate David Marshall . Marshall , who is taking a break from FF1600 to go travelling , will test the car alone on Saturday , with the pair sharing the qualifying and racing duties on Sunday . It will be the first time he has competed in a non-FF1600 race . Justin Dawkins will hand his car over to Monoposto racer Dave Cameron for one of Saturday's test sessions at Anglesey . Cameron will have a first taste of the Ray GRS05 , while Dawkins will step into Cameron's 170bhp , 1000cc Jedi in return . Both will be competing on Sunday , Justin in the FF1600 contests and Dave in the single-seater events .	News
1064	"DEFCON 507 shall apply to the Contract EXCEPT THAT The Reference to DEFCON 524 shall be construed as a reference to General Condition 19 . The wording contained in DEFCON 507 is as follows : - The Contractor shall deliver the Articles in accordance with the terms of the Contract . Unless otherwise agreed , delivery of Articles shall occur upon the Articles being handed over by the Contractor to the Authority or to the Representative of the Authority . Unless otherwise agreed , where : the Contractor is required under the Contract to carry out any Service in connection with any Issued Property : or the result of a Service which the Contractor is required to deliver are to be received by the Authority in the form of a deliverable , such as a report or in the form of computer software , delivery of the Service , or the relevant part of the Service , shall occur upon the Issued Property or the deliverable being handed over by the Contractor to the Authority or to the Representative of the Authority . Unless otherwise agreed , and subject to the provisions of DEFCON 649 where applicable , the property in Articles shall pass from the Contractor to the Authority upon delivery in accordance with this Condition . Until delivery , the risk of loss or damage to the Articles shall be with the Contractor . The Contractor shall ensure that the Articles are packaged in accordance with the terms of the Contract . The Authority may from time to time issue instructions that vary the transport or consignment arrangements in the Contract . These instructions will be the subject of a Contract amendment which shall also provide for any resulting change in Contract Price or delivery or both . Where , after delivery , an Article is rejected by the Authority in accordance with DEFCON 524 that Article shall , for the purposes of the Contract , be considered as not having been delivered under the Contract and the property in that Article shall return to the Contractor unless a notice of objection has been issued to the Authority in accordance with Clause 7 of that Condition . Any dates of delivery of the Articles as detailed in the delivery schedule set out elsewhere in the Contract ( "" Delivery Schedule "" ) shall , where expressly agreed in the Contract , be of the essence of the Contract . If time is agreed in writing to be of the essence and the Contractor fails to deliver all or any of the Articles in accordance with the requirements of the Contract on the relevant date for delivery specified in the Contract then , without prejudice to any other rights of AWE plc arising out of such failure , AWE plc may , at its sole discretion , terminate the Contract either as respects the Articles which have not been delivered in accordance with the Contract at the time of such determination or as respects all the Articles to which the Contract relates other than those delivered in accordance with the Contract before that time and the provisions of General Condition 12 shall apply ( mutatis mutandis ) . Physical Delivery The Contractor shall be responsible for transporting the Articles supplied under the Contract from the point of origin to the consignee . The Contractor shall also be responsible for all loading and unloading of the Articles upon arrival at the site including , where necessary , the provision of special handling equipment . Occasionally it may be necessary to redistribute consignments under the Contract from one consignee to another . This will be communicated to the Contractor by Contract amendment . Unless otherwise stated all prices include delivery to AWE plc premises ."	Legal
1272	"Announcing ... Lou Adler's Updated Rules for Winning the Talent Wars Lou Adler is known in HR departments and by recruiters nationwide as the thought leader who successfully transformed hiring into a systematic and scalable process that leaves little to chance . Financial companies , hospital and health care systems , name brand online companies and product manufacturers are among the numerous organizations that rely upon Adler's Performance-based HiringSM to win the talent wars . This summer , Adler has released the third edition of HIRE WITH YOUR HEAD , Wiley & Sons , July 2007 ( $ 29 . 95 ) , featuring the time-tested approach and integrating it into today's online world . Every hiring manager and every outside recruiter knows Lou Adler and The Adler Group as the source for improving their hiring success . Through onsite seminars , workshops , keynote speeches and webinars , The Adler Group ( www.adlerconcepts.com ) trains thousands of people every year to help improve sourcing , interviewing , hiring and retaining talent to help companies prosper . In HIRE WITH YOUR HEAD , Lou explains why the traditional methods of hiring and interviewing simply do not work . When the fundamentally flawed hiring process is compared to the Performance-based Hiring approach , it becomes crystal clear which is the better way to go . "" To succeed today , any kind of organization must take pro-active control of the talent supply chain . This is as necessary in the hiring area as any other critical sector of a company , "" says Lou Adler . "" HIRE WITH YOUR HEAD shows how . "" This up-to-date and fully revised edition of HIRE WITH YOUR HEAD features an in-depth look at the biggest change in the hiring arena since the introduction of the personal computer . Social networking sites , such as LinkedIn , MySpace , ZoomInfo and others have eliminated any secrecy in hiring and recruiting . Available positions that were once shared only with potential candidates are now two or three mouse clicks away from discovery by anyone - competitors as well as applicants . With changes in the hiring world happening at the rate of Internet innovations , keeping up with the rapid pace is a challenge . Knowing how to manage the information and the candidates who hold the same information cards as the hiring manager is critical . The same Wild West atmosphere that has put information on job openings on the fast track has also led to dramatic changes in the attitude of potential hires . There are fewer obstacles to keep employees in positions they find unfulfilling or unrewarding . The stigma of leaving companies has just about vanished , and changing jobs for short-term and superficial reasons and accepting counteroffers are now acceptable . Qualified candidates can easily find new jobs and new opportunities . Companies must address these changes and adapt their sourcing and hiring methods to maintain any competitive edge . HIRE WITH YOUR HEAD shows the reader how to find the best candidates , both active job seekers and passive browsers . Adler explores the use of multi-level sourcing , where pursuing a series of different channels ensures a constant flow of top candidates on an on-going basis . Identifying top candidates but failing to conduct good interviews condemns the hiring process to failure . Adler explains how two simple questions can be used to identify real performance potential , bringing the candidate into an authentic give-and-take discussion about the actual challenges and situations that the position entails , and determining how the person will perform , based on how they have handled similar situations in the past . Hint : the success is in the details . The methods described in HIRE WITH YOUR HEAD lead to a clear understanding of the candidate's problem-solving abilities , insights , intelligence , potential , vision and leadership skills . "" Hiring managers make mistakes when they allow presentation and emotion to overshadow performance , and this happens on a daily basis in offices around the globe , "" says Adler . "" The system that I have created and refined eliminates these mistakes by taking the candidate and the interviewers step by step through this simple , yet highly analytical process . "" For hiring managers , recruiters and anyone running a business or a department who wants to do a better job of finding , interviewing and hiring the best candidates , HIRE WITH YOUR HEAD is the only source they need . If you do not have a copy of HIRE WITH YOUR HEAD or would like additional information on Lou Adler , call Shari Goldstein at 631-595-7150 or shari@goldsteinPR.com and please provide your name , mailing address , name of publication and all other contact information ."	Promotion
442	Michael Catchpool Michael Catchpool is currently the Primary Adviser for English and Drama for Hertfordshire LEA , though given the rate at which he changes jobs , he couldwell be doing something else by the time you read this . He has taught in a number of schools in the West country as well as being a Headteacher . Before going into teaching , Michael even spent some time as a cark-park attendant and a cleaner ! With life beginning at forty , Michael is limbering up ready to get into the starting blocks . Michael has collaborated on a number of books with Pat Lunt , including the very popular assembly resources ; ' Kings and Monkeys ' , ' Ugly bugs and Apple Trees ' and ' Cooks and Ogres ' . They have co-written a musical adaptation of the medieval mystery plays and have performed sketches on local BBC radio stations . Despite working on many projects together , Michael and Pat are still talking to each other . See books by Michael Catchpool Articles in this group Michael Apichella About our author Featured Author : Revd John Wright Revd John Wright has written very popular assembly resource books for us based on his own experience of leading school assemblies as a novice and all the anxiety that comes with it - now a past master John's resource material has been tried and tested . Nicholas King about Nicholas Martin Leckebusch Martin Leckebusch Tony Lawson Born in Malaysia in 1959 Tony spent all his early childhood in the Far East between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore . He was educated at Wycliffe College and the London College of Printing ... Patrick Woodhouse __ Eleanor Watkins Eleanor Watkins Pete Townsend Pete Townsend Katie Thompson Katie Thompson Stuart Thomas Stuart Thomas Ken Taylor Ken Taylor Tim Storey Tim Storey Suzi Stock Suzi Stock Ray Simpson Ray Simpson Susan Sayers Susan is the author of many popular resource books for the church including our ever-popular Living Stones range . Susan has released her NEW RANGE of books : ' The Confirmation Exprience ' Andy Robb Andy Robb H. J. Richards H. J. Richards Clare Richards Clare Richards Alan Price Alan Price Tony Philpot Tony Philpot Denis O ' Gorman Denis O ' Gorman Pat Lunt Pat Lunt Rob Hurd Rob Hurd Joyce Huggett Joyce Huggett Janice Hodge Janice Hodge Susan Hardwick Susan Hardwick John Hardwick John Hardwick Nick Harding Nick Harding Phil Green Phil Green David Gatward David Gatward Michael Forster Michael Forster Nick Fawcett Nick Fawcett Steve English Steve English Ron Dale Ron Dale Peter Dainty Peter Dainty Tony Castle Tony Castle Joan Brown Joan Brown Tony Bower Tony Bower Liz Babbs Liz Babbs Michael Apichella Author - Michael Apichella David Adam Author - David Adam © 2006 Kevin Mayhew Publishers High Accessibility Version . ( Full Graphics Version	Promotion
436	"Most liaison psychiatry posts are now managed and administered by a mental health trust . The consultant is therefore likely to be employed by the mental health trust although many people believe this is not an optimum arrangement . There is usually a Service Level Agreement ( SLA ) between the mental health trust and the acute general hospital trust for the provision of a liaison psychiatry service . In a few hospitals the liaison psychiatry service forms part of the acute general hospital trust and is managed by that organisation . The funding arrangements should be clarified . If the liaison psychiatry service forms part of a Service Level Agreement it should be established what budget the acute trust makes for the service and what level of provision is agreed . Ideally the budget for the liaison psychiatry service should be identified and the consultant should have considerable influence in determining how this is deployed . The joint report on "" The psychological care of medical patients "" ( RCP and RCPsych , 1995 ) recommended that funding for a liaison psychiatry service should come from a medical and surgical budget but should be managed within a mental health service . There should be one manager who has direct responsibility for the service , who works with the liaison psychiatry consultant and who reports to the relevant Chief Executive . After you have started your post it is helpful to arrange business meetings every four to six weeks with managers from both the acute ( general medical ) and community trust ( psychiatry ) . These meetings can be extremely helpful in terms of resolving issues between the general hospital and psychiatry . They can also be helpful in terms of future expansion of the service . Facilities Accommodation is a vital component of the service and should be located in a convenient position within the main general hospital where the service is provided . A consultant's office is essential . This should be identified and shown to the consultant before taking up the appointment . It is also essential that there is secretarial and administrative support with appropriate office accommodation and space for filing and record keeping . One secretary should be identified to provide secretarial support to the consultant . It should be explicitly stated in the job description which consultant has clinical responsibilities if a patient needs to be admitted to a psychiatric ward . Likewise , if a patient is admitted to a medical ward , the medical responsibility for that patient should be clearly stated . If the post holder is to retain medical responsibility for patients admitted to psychiatric services , the location of the beds should be identified and the number specified although it is likely that the full bed complement will not always be taken up . An acute adult psychiatry admission ward is often not ideal for the management of patients with combined medical and psychiatric problems but very few services have access to a special ward devoted to this type of patient . In many cases it is preferable to manage patients with physical and psychiatric co-morbidity on a medical ward , ideally a side room , with special psychiatric nursing ( RMN status ) provided for as long as is required . In these circumstances the funding for the RMN should be clarified . It is usual practice for this to come from the budget of the medical division from which the patient has been referred . If the liaison psychiatrist has no access to in-patient beds there must be an agreement with psychiatric colleagues to admit patients who require in-patient care to the relevant catchment area psychiatric ward . The medical responsibility of patients in the Accident & Emergency Department should be clearly established and stated in the job description . The position of patients seen by psychiatric nurses , but not by psychiatric junior staff , should be explicitly stated ."	Legal
945	The best way to keep yourself safe when you 're out is to take sensible precautions . For instance , it 's a good idea to have a personal attack alarm ( you can buy them in DIY stores ) for when you 're walking by yourself especially in the dark . Hold it in your hand so you can set it off easily if anyone tries to attack you , or take your bag or mobile . Stay in well-lit streets , and cross the road if you think anyone is following you . If they are , get to somewhere where there are other people as fast as you can . You 're always safer walking with friends than on your own - if it 's late , take a licensed taxi . Try and avoid isolated bus stops after dark , and never take short cuts through dark alleys , parks , woods or across waste ground . Do n't accept lifts from anyone you do n't know if a car stops and you feel threatened , get away as fast as you can , or set off your personal alarm if you have one . Keep your mobile hidden in your pocket , and cover jewellery as much as possible . You 're better off not wearing your personal stereo when you 're out either , because you wo n't be able to hear traffic or people coming up behind you . If anyone tries to steal your bag or phone , the safest thing to do is just let it go . If you get mugged , attacked or threatened in any way , tell the police about it as soon as you can .	Instruction
1477	The Dr Xavier Clinic would like to introduce you to the Halo EliteTM - an effective hair loss laser . The programme offers a Genuine Solution for Hair Loss and Balding . Has your confidence suffered due to of hair loss and balding ? This NEW exciting treatment may be the answer you have been looking for , to restore your hair - and your confidence . The only non-medication based treatment that is approved by the FDA ( The US drugs regulator ) Over 96 % of women achieve thicker hair in the vertex area Over 19 new hairs per cm2 Over 83 % of men achieve thicker hair in the vortex and frontal areas 80 % increase in tensile strength of hair Increased hair thickness and density Many Premier League football clubs now use LLLT to help improve injuries and speed up recovery times . Each treatments session lasts just 12 and a half minutes and could n't be easier , simply sit back , relax , read a magazine and let the laser do its work . 95 % of people have seen significant improvement in their hair loss and re-growth when having Halo EliteTM laser treatment . Halo EliteTM has 171 high quality 650 nm laser diodes - the only type of laser FDA approved for hair growth - more than any other device . This is achieved by increasing production of energy used for cell division , increasing cell metabolism and improving blood and nutrient supply to the scalp . For more detailed information on why we lose our hair and how we can prevent this please read the FAQ section below or click here for more information about Halo EliteTM hair loss treatment . During the Anagen growth phase your cells will divide rapidly . The newly created cell then takes over the necessary functions and the other cell dies . The dead cells are pushed upwards from the dermal papilla into the hair follicle where they undergo Keratinisation - this where the dead cells are compressed together and pigmented . These Keratinised cells are then pushed up out of the scalps follicles as hair . Hair is basically the excretion of dead keratinised cells from the scalp / body . What is Follicular Miniaturisation and why do we lose our hair ? Our hairs grow thick and strong until the age puberty when testosterone levels in the body increase . Our bodies convert Testosterone in to something called Dihydratestosterone - commonly known as DHT . DHT is the key ingredient in the production of sperm and enabling the functions of the sex organs . Unfortunately our bodies produce more DHT than it needs for these functions . Excess DHT must bind to special DHT receptors for it to be broken down and the only place these receptors are found , apart from the sexual organs , is the dermal papillae in the scalp . When this binding takes place cells that would normally produce hair by dividing and dying , must now devote their energy to breaking down DHT . This results in reduced cell division and a decreased production of keratinised cells . As this decrease means less Keratinised cells , hair produced is thinner , shorter , weaker and less dense . Consequently hair produced becomes thinner and thinner and the hair follicle shrinks around it , further restricting growth . This eventually leads to the follicles shifting permanently in to the growth cycles resting phase and no more hair is produced . Am I a suitable candidate for Halo EliteTM Hair Loss Therapy ? The chances are if you suffer from hair loss , then the Halo EliteTM can help . As with all hair loss treatments early intervention and prevention is best but not absolutely necessary - If you are already bald , providing you still have active hair follicles , then Halo EliteTM Laser Treatment can still help . At your consultation you will be assessed by our expert therapists using a 200X magnifying digital microscope so that we can easily identify your active hair follicles and explain exactly what results you can expect from your treatment - Based on Your Active Hair Follicles , Your Results Can Even Be Guaranteed .	Promotion
688	At the Best Western Deans Place Hotel there is no such thing as a standard room design . All our rooms have an individual feel and we pride ourselves on making your stay as comfortable as possible whether you are staying in a single room all the way up to our Bridal Suite with it 's elegant 4 Poster Bed 36 delightfully appointed single , twin and double bedrooms all with private bathroom , satellite TV and tea / coffee making facilities . Upgrade to our newly refurbished Executive bedrooms or celebrate a special occasion in one of our traditional in one of our traditional Four Poster bedrooms SPECIAL NEEDS EQUIPMENT AVAILABLE : Complimentary to our guests : Wheelchair , Electric Bath Lift , Raised Height Toilet Seat and Commode plus Hearing Loop and Large Print Menus ( subject to availability )	Promotion
891	"I thought as much ,  said he . "" Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings ? "" "" Yes , sir . He told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he was a lad . "" "" Hum ! "" said Holmes , sinking back in deep thought . "" He is still with you ? "" "" Oh , yes , sir ; I have only just left him . "" "" And has your business been attended to in your absence ? "" "" Nothing to complain of , sir . There 's never very much to do of a morning . "" "" That will do , Mr. Wilson . I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two . To-day is Saturday , and I hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion . "" "" Well , Watson , "" said Holmes when our visitor had left us , "" what do you make of it all ? "" "" I make nothing of it , "" I answered frankly . "" It is a most mysterious business . "" "" As a rule , "" said Holmes , "" the more bizarre a thing is the less mysterious it proves to be . It is your commonplace , featureless crimes which are really puzzling , just as a commonplace face is the most difficult to identify . But I must be prompt over this matter . "" "" What are you going to do , then ? "" I asked . "" To smoke , "" he answered . "" It is quite a three pipe problem , and I beg that you wo n't speak to me for fifty minutes . "" He curled himself up in his chair , with his thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose , and there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe thrusting out like the bill of some strange bird . I had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep , and indeed was nodding myself , when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece . "" Sarasate plays at the St. James's Hall this afternoon , "" he remarked . "" What do you think , Watson ? Could your patients spare you for a few hours ? "" "" I have nothing to do to-day . My practice is never very absorbing . "" "" Then put on your hat and come . I am going through the City first , and we can have some lunch on the way . I observe that there is a good deal of German music on the programme , which is rather more to my taste than Italian or French . It is introspective , and I want to introspect . Come along ! "" We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate ; and a short walk took us to Saxe-Coburg Square , the scene of the singular story which we had listened to in the morning . It was a poky , little , shabby-genteel place , where four lines of dingy two-storied brick houses looked out into a small railed-in enclosure , where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumps of faded laurel-bushes made a hard fight against a smoke-laden and uncongenial atmosphere . Three gilt balls and a brown board with "" JABEZ WILSON "" in white letters , upon a corner house , announced the place where our red-headed client carried on his business . Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over , with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids . Then he walked slowly up the street , and then down again to the corner , still looking keenly at the houses . Finally he returned to the pawnbroker's , and , having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or three times , he went up to the door and knocked . It was instantly opened by a bright-looking , clean-shaven young fellow , who asked him to step in . "" Thank you , "" said Holmes , "" I only wished to ask you how you would go from here to the Strand . "" "" Third right , fourth left , "" answered the assistant promptly , closing the door . "" Smart fellow , that , "" observed Holmes as we walked away . "" He is , in my judgment , the fourth smartest man in London , and for daring I am not sure that he has not a claim to be third . I have known something of him before . "" "" Evidently , "" said I , "" Mr. Wilson's assistant counts for a good deal in this mystery of the Red-headed League . I am sure that you inquired your way merely in order that you might see him . "" "" Not him . "" "" What then ? "" "" The knees of his trousers . "" "" And what did you see ? "" "" What I expected to see . "" "" Why did you beat the pavement ? "" "" My dear doctor , this is a time for observation , not for talk ."	Prose/Lyrical
1204	"TROUBLESHOOTING Try the solutions suggested here first in order to avoid the cost of an unnecessary service call . Refrigerator Operation Rattling - flow of refrigerant , water line , or from items placed on top of the refrigerator Sizzling / Gurgling - water dripping on the heater during defrost cycle Popping - contraction / expansion of inside walls , especially during initial cool-down Water running - may be heard when water melts during the defrost cycle and runs into the drain pan Creaking / Cracking - occurs as ice is being ejected from the ice maker mold . The refrigerator will not operate WARNING Electrical Shock Hazard Plug into a grounded 3 prong outlet . Do not remove ground prong . The doors will not close completely Door blocked open ? Move food packages away from door . Bin or shelf in the way ? Push bin or shelf back in the correct position . Do not use an adapter . Do not use an extension cord . The doors are difficult to open Failure to follow these instructions can result in death , fire , or electrical shock . Power cord unplugged ? Plug into a grounded 3 prong outlet . Is outlet working ? Plug in a lamp to see if the outlet is working . Household fuse blown or circuit breaker tripped ? Replace the fuse or reset the circuit breaker . If the problem continues , call an electrician . Are controls on ? Make sure the refrigerator controls are on . See "" Using the Controls . "" New installation ? Allow 24 hours following installation for the refrigerator to cool completely . NOTE : Adjusting the temperature controls to coldest setting will not cool either compartment more quickly . WARNING Explosion Hazard Use nonflammable cleaner . Failure to do so can result in death , explosion , or fire . Are the gaskets dirty or sticky ? Clean gaskets with mild soap and warm water . The motor seems to run too much Your new refrigerator may run longer than your old one due to its high-efficiency compressor and fans . The unit may run even longer if the room is warm , a large food load is added , doors are opened often , or if the doors have been left open . The lights do not work Is a light bulb loose in the socket or burned out ? See "" Changing the Light Bulbs . "" Is the dispenser light set to ON ? The dispenser light will operate only when the levers are pressed . If you want the dispenser light to stay on continuously , set the dispenser light to ON , or NIGHT LIGHT or AUTO . See "" Water and Ice Dispensers . "" Is the dispenser light set to NIGHT LIGHT or AUTO ? If the dispenser is set to the NIGHT LIGHT or AUTO mode , be sure the dispenser light sensor is not blocked . See "" Water and Ice Dispensers . "" The refrigerator is noisy Refrigerator noise has been reduced over the years . Due to this reduction , you may hear intermittent noises from your new refrigerator that you did not notice from your old model . Below are listed some normal sounds with an explanation . maker Pulsating - fans / compressor adjusting to optimize Off-taste , odor or gray color in the ice Temperature and Moisture New plumbing connections ? New plumbing connections can cause discolored or off-flavored ice . Temperature is too warm New installation ? Allow 24 hours following installation for the refrigerator to cool completely . Ice stored too long ? Discard ice . Wash ice bin . Allow 24 hours for ice maker to make new ice . Door ( s ) opened often or left open ? Allows warm air to enter refrigerator . Minimize door openings and keep doors fully closed . Odor transfer from food ? Use airtight , moisture proof packaging to store food . Large load of food added ? Allow several hours for refrigerator to return to normal temperature . Are there minerals ( such as sulfur ) in the water ? A water filter may need to be installed to remove the minerals . Controls set correctly for the surrounding conditions ? Adjust the controls a setting colder . Check temperature in 24 hours . See "" Using the Controls . "" Is there a water filter installed on the refrigerator ? Gray or dark discoloration in ice indicates that the water filtration system needs additional flushing . The ice dispenser will not operate properly There is interior moisture buildup Freezer door closed completely ? Close the door firmly . If it does not close completely , see "" The doors will not close completely . "" Ice bin installed correctly ? Be sure the ice bin is firmly in position . New installation ? Wait 24 hours after ice maker installation for ice production to begin . Wait 72 hours for full ice production . Ice stuck in the delivery chute ? Use a plastic utensil to clear the delivery chute . Has the wrong ice been added to the bin ? Use only cubes produced by the current ice maker . Has the ice melted around the auger ( metal spiral ) in the ice bin ? Dump the ice cubes and clean the ice bin . NOTE : Some moisture build-up is normal . Door ( s ) opened often or left open ? Allows humid air to enter refrigerator . Minimize door openings and keep doors fully closed . Ice and Water The ice maker is not producing ice or not enough ice Refrigerator connected to a water supply and the supply shutoff valve turned on ? Connect refrigerator to water supply and turn water shutoff valve fully open . Kink in the water source line ? A kink in the line can reduce water flow . Straighten the water source line . Ice maker turned on ? Make sure wire shutoff arm or switch ( depending on model ) is in the ON position . New installation ? Wait 24 hours after ice maker installation for ice production to begin . Wait 72 hours for full ice production . Large amount of ice recently removed ? Allow 24 hours for ice maker to produce more ice . Ice cube jammed in the ice maker ejector arm ? Remove ice from the ejector arm with a plastic utensil . Reverse osmosis water filtration system connected to your cold water supply ? This can decrease water pressure . See "" Water Supply Requirements "" in either the Installation Instruction booklet or the Use & Care Guide . WARNING Cut Hazard Use a sturdy glass when dispensing ice or water . Failure to do so can result in cuts . Is the ice dispenser stalling while dispensing "" crushed "" ice ? Change the ice button from "" crushed "" to "" cubed . "" If cubed ice dispenses correctly , depress the button for "" crushed "" ice and begin dispensing again . Has the dispenser arm been held in too long ? Ice will stop dispensing when the arm is held in too long . Wait 3 minutes for dispenser motor to reset before using again . The ice cubes are hollow or small NOTE : This is an indication of low water pressure . valve fully open . Kink in the water source line ? A kink in the line can reduce water flow . Straighten the water source line . Reverse osmosis water filtration system connected to your cold water supply ? This can decrease water pressure . See "" Water Supply Requirements . "" Questions remain regarding water pressure ? Call a licensed , qualified plumber . The water dispenser will not operate properly Freezer door closed completely ? Close the door firmly . If it does not close completely , see "" The doors will not close completely . "" Refrigerator connected to a water supply and the supply shutoff valve turned on ? Connect refrigerator to water supply and turn water shutoff valve fully open . Is the water pressure at least 30 psi ? The water pressure to the home determines the flow from the dispenser . See "" Water Supply Requirements . "" Kink in the home water source line ? Straighten the water source line . New installation ? Flush and fill the water system . Water filter installed on the refrigerator ? The filter may be clogged or incorrectly installed . Is a reverse osmosis water filtration system connected to your cold water supply ? See "" Water Supply Requirements "" in either the Installation Instructions or the Use & Care Guide . WATER FILTER CERTIFICATIONS Water is leaking from the dispenser NOTE : One or two drops of water after dispensing is normal . WARNING Cut Hazard Use a sturdy glass when dispensing ice or water . Failure to do so can result in cuts . Glass not being held under the dispenser long enough ? Hold the glass under the dispenser 2 to 3 seconds after releasing the dispenser lever . New installation ? Flush the water system . See "" Ice and Water Dispensers . "" Recently changed water filter ? Flush the water system . See "" Ice & Water Dispensers . "" The dispenser water is not cool enough NOTE : Water from the dispenser is chilled to only 50 ° F ( 10 ° C ) . water supply to cool completely . Recently dispensed large amount of water ? Allow 24 hours for water supply to cool completely . Water not been recently dispensed ? The first glass of water may not be cool . Discard the first glass of water . Refrigerator connected to a cold water pipe ? Make sure the refrigerator is connected to a cold water pipe . See "" Water Supply Requirements . """	Instruction
1371	It 's Not Always Cold At Christmas Of course we know that for the Southern Hemisphere Christmas falls during their summer so turkey dinner on the beach each December 25th is a common occurrence . Heading up North and to western Europe in particular you 'd normally expect to witness plenty of those classic winter scenes at every turn ? Not always as you can see from the temperatures recorded below :	Information/Explanation
58	"CHAPTER XI IN THE TENT The man who guided Salammbo made her ascend again beyond the pharos in the direction of the Catacombs , and then go down the long suburb of Molouya , which was full of steep lanes . The sky was beginning to grow grey . Sometimes palm-wood beams jutting out from the walls obliged them to bend their heads . The two horses which were at the walk would often slip ; and thus they reached the Teveste gate . Its heavy leaves were half open ; they passed through , and it closed behind them . At first they followed the foot of the ramparts for a time , and at the height of the cisterns they took their way along the Taenia , a narrow strip of yellow earth separating the gulf from the lake and extending as far as Rhades . No one was to be seen around Carthage , whether on the sea or in the country . The slate-coloured waves chopped softly , and the light wind blowing their foam hither and thither spotted them with white rents . In spite of all her veils , Salammbo shivered in the freshness of the morning ; the motion and the open air dazed her . Then the sun rose ; it preyed on the back of her head , and she involuntarily dozed a little . The two animals rambled along side by side , their feet sinking into the silent sand . When they had passed the mountain of the Hot Springs , they went on at a more rapid rate , the ground being firmer . But although it was the season for sowing and ploughing , the fields were as empty as the desert as far as the eye could reach . Here and there were scattered heaps of corn ; at other places the barley was shedding its reddened ears . The villages showed black upon the clear horizon , with shapes incoherently carved . From time to time a half-calcined piece of wall would be found standing on the edge of the road . The roofs of the cottages were falling in , and in the interiors might be distinguished fragments of pottery , rags of clothing , and all kinds of unrecognisable utensils and broken things . Often a creature clothed in tatters , with earthy face and flaming eyes would emerge from these ruins . But he would very quickly begin to run or would disappear into a hole . Salammbo and her guide did not stop . Deserted plains succeeded one another . Charcoal dust which was raised by their feet behind them , stretched in unequal trails over large spaces of perfectly white soil . Sometimes they came upon little peaceful spots , where a brook flowed amid the long grass ; and as they ascended the other bank Salammbo would pluck damp leaves to cool her hands . At the corner of a wood of rose-bays her horse shied violently at the corpse of a man which lay extended on the ground . The slave immediately settled her again on the cushions . He was one of the servants of the Temple , a man whom Schahabarim used to employ on perilous missions . With extreme precaution he now went on foot beside her and between the horses ; he would whip the animals with the end of a leathern lace wound round his arm , or would perhaps take balls made of wheat , dates , and yolks of eggs wrapped in lotus leaves from a scrip hanging against his breast , and offer them to Salammbo without speaking , and running all the time . In the middle of the day three Barbarians clad in animals' skins crossed their path . By degrees others appeared wandering in troops of ten , twelve , or twenty-five men ; many were driving goats or a limping cow . Their heavy sticks bristled with brass points ; cutlasses gleamed in their clothes , which were savagely dirty , and they opened their eyes with a look of menace and amazement . As they passed some sent them a vulgar benediction ; others obscene jests , and Schahabarim's man replied to each in his own idiom . He told them that this was a sick youth going to be cured at a distant temple . However , the day was closing in . Barkings were heard , and they approached them . Then in the twilight they perceived an enclosure of dry stones shutting in a rambling edifice . A dog was running along the top of the wall . The slave threw some pebbles at him and they entered a lofty vaulted hall . A woman was crouching in the centre warming herself at a fire of brushwood , the smoke of which escaped through the holes in the ceiling . She was half hidden by her white hair which fell to her knees ; and unwilling to answer , she muttered with idiotic look words of vengeance against the Barbarians and the Carthaginians . The runner ferreted right and left . Then he returned to her and demanded something to eat . The old woman shook her head , and murmured with her eyes fixed upon the charcoal : "" I was the hand . The ten fingers are cut off . The mouth eats no more . "" The slave showed her a handful of gold pieces . She rushed upon them , but soon resumed her immobility . At last he placed a dagger which he had in his girdle beneath her throat . Then , trembling , she went and raised a large stone , and brought back an amphora of wine with fish from Hippo-Zarytus preserved in honey . Salammbo turned away from this unclean food , and fell asleep on the horses' caparisons which were spread in a corner of the hall . He awoke her before daylight . The dog was howling . The slave went up to it quietly , and struck off its head with a single blow of his dagger . Then he rubbed the horses' nostrils with blood to revive them . The old woman cast a malediction at him from behind . Salammbo perceived this , and pressed the amulet which she wore above her heart . They resumed their journey . From time to time she asked whether they would not arrive soon . The road undulated over little hills . Nothing was to be heard but the grating of the grasshoppers . The sun heated the yellowed grass ; the ground was all chinked with crevices which in dividing formed , as it were , monstrous paving-stones . Sometimes a viper passed , or eagles flew by ; the slave still continued running . Salammbo mused beneath her veils , and in spite of the heat did not lay them aside through fear of soiling her beautiful garments . At regular distances stood towers built by the Carthaginians for the purpose of keeping watch upon the tribes . They entered these for the sake of the shade , and then set out again . For prudence sake they had made a wide detour the day before . But they met with no one just now ; the region being a sterile one , the Barbarians had not passed that way . Gradually the devastation began again . Sometimes a piece of mosaic would be displayed in the centre of a field , the sole remnant of a vanished mansion ; and the leafless olive trees looked at a distance like large bushes of thorns . They passed through a town in which houses were burnt to the ground . Human skeletons might be seen along the walls . There were some , too , of dromedaries and mules . Half-gnawed carrion blocked the streets . Night fell . The sky was lowering and cloudy . They ascended again for two hours in a westerly direction , when suddenly they perceived a quantity of little flames before them . These were shining at the bottom of an ampitheatre . Gold plates , as they displaced one another , glanced here and there . These were the cuirasses of the Clinabarians in the Punic camp ; then in the neighbourhood they distinguished other and more numerous lights , for the armies of the Mercenaries , now blended together , extended over a great space . Salammbo made a movement as though to advance . But Schahabarim's man took her further away , and they passed along by the terrace which enclosed the camp of the Barbarians . A breach became visible in it , and the slave disappeared . A sentry was walking upon the top of the entrenchment with a bow in his hand and a pike on his shoulder . Salammbo drew still nearer ; the Barbarian knelt and a long arrow pierced the hem of her cloak . Then as she stood motionless and shrieking , he asked her what she wanted . "" To speak to Matho , "" she replied . "" I am a fugitive from Carthage . "" He gave a whistle , which was repeated at intervals further away . Salammbo waited ; her frightened horse moved round and round , sniffing . When Matho arrived the moon was rising behind her . But she had a yellow veil with black flowers over her face , and so many draperies about her person , that it was impossible to make any guess about her . From the top of the terrace he gazed upon this vague form standing up like a phantom in the penumbrae of the evening . At last she said to him : "" Lead me to your tent ! I wish it ! "" A recollection which he could not define passed through his memory . He felt his heart beating . The air of command intimidated him . "" Follow me ! "" he said . The barrier was lowered , and immediately she was in the camp of the Barbarians . It was filled with a great tumult and a great throng . Bright fires were burning beneath hanging pots ; and their purpled reflections illuminating some places left others completely in the dark . There was shouting and calling ; shackled horses formed long straight lines amid the tents ; the latter were round and square , of leather or of canvas ; there were huts of reeds , and holes in the sand such as are made by dogs . Soldiers were carting faggots , resting on their elbows on the ground , or wrapping themselves up in mats and preparing to sleep ; and Salammbo's horse sometimes stretched out a leg and jumped in order to pass over them . She remembered that she had seen them before ; but their beards were longer now , their faces still blacker , and their voices hoarser . Matho , who walked before her , waved them off with a gesture of his arm which raised his red mantle . Some kissed his hands ; others bending their spines approached him to ask for orders , for he was now veritable and sole chief of the Barbarians ; Spendius , Autaritus , and Narr ' Havas had become disheartened , and he had displayed so much audacity and obstinacy that all obeyed him . Salammbo followed him through the entire camp . His tent was at the end , three hundred feet from Hamilcar's entrenchments . She noticed a wide pit on the right , and it seemed to her that faces were resting against the edge of it on a level with the ground , as decapitated heads might have done . However , their eyes moved , and from these half-opened mouths groanings escaped in the Punic tongue . Two Negroes holding resin lights stood on both sides of the door . Matho drew the canvas abruptly aside . She followed him . It was a deep tent with a pole standing up in the centre . It was lighted by a large lamp-holder shaped like a lotus and full of a yellow oil wherein floated handfuls of burning tow , and military things might be distinguished gleaming in the shade . A naked sword leaned against a stool by the side of a shield ; whips of hippopotamus leather , cymbals , bells , and necklaces were displayed pell-mell on baskets of esparto-grass ; a felt rug lay soiled with crumbs of black bread ; some copper money was carelessly heaped upon a round stone in a corner , and through the rents in the canvas the wind brought the dust from without , together with the smell of the elephants , which might be heard eating and shaking their chains . "" Who are you ? "" said Matho . She looked slowly around her without replying ; then her eyes were arrested in the background , where something bluish and sparkling fell upon a bed of palm-branches . She advanced quickly . A cry escaped her . Matho stamped his foot behind her . "" Who brings you here ? why do you come ? "" "" To take it ! "" she replied , pointing to the zaimph , and with the other hand she tore the veils from her head . He drew back with his elbows behind him , gaping , almost terrified . She felt as if she were leaning on the might of the gods ; and looking at him face to face she asked him for the zaimph ; she demanded it in words abundant and superb . Matho did not hear ; he was gazing at her , and in his eyes her garments were blended with her body . The clouding of the stuffs , like the splendour of her skin , was something special and belonging to her alone . Her eyes and her diamonds sparkled ; the polish of her nails continued the delicacy of the stones which loaded her fingers ; the two clasps of her tunic raised her breasts somewhat and brought them closer together , and he in thought lost himself in the narrow interval between them whence there fell a thread holding a plate of emeralds which could be seen lower down beneath the violet gauze . She had as earrings two little sapphire scales , each supporting a hollow pearl filled with liquid scent . A little drop would fall every moment through the holes in the pearl and moisten her naked shoulder . Matho watched it fall . He was carried away by ungovernable curiosity ; and , like a child laying his hand upon a strange fruit , he tremblingly and lightly touched the top of her chest with the tip of his finger : the flesh , which was somewhat cold , yielded with an elastic resistance . This contact , though scarcely a sensible one , shook Matho to the very depths of his nature . An uprising of his whole being urged him towards her . He would fain have enveloped her , absorbed her , drunk her . His bosom was panting , his teeth were chattering . Taking her by the wrists he drew her gently to him , and then sat down upon a cuirass beside the palm-tree bed which was covered with a lion's skin . She was standing . He looked up at her , holding her thus between his knees , and repeating : "" How beautiful you are ! how beautiful you are ! "" His eyes , which were continually fixed upon hers , pained her ; and the uncomfortableness , the repugnance increased in so acute a fashion that Salammbo put a constraint upon herself not to cry out . The thought of Schahabarim came back to her , and she resigned herself . Matho still kept her little hands in his own ; and from time to time , in spite of the priest's command , she turned away her face and tried to thrust him off by jerking her arms . He opened his nostrils the better to breathe in the perfume which exhaled from her person . It was a fresh , indefinable emanation , which nevertheless made him dizzy , like the smoke from a perfuming-pan . She smelt of honey , pepper , incense , roses , with another odour still . But how was she thus with him in his tent , and at his disposal ? Some one no doubt had urged her . She had not come for the zaimph . His arms fell , and he bent his head whelmed in sudden reverie . To soften him Salammbo said to him in a plaintive voice : "" What have I done to you that you should desire my death ? "" "" Your death ! "" She resumed : "" I saw you one evening by the light of my burning gardens amid fuming cups and my slaughtered slaves , and your anger was so strong that you bounded towards me and I was obliged to fly ! Then terror entered into Carthage . There were cries of the devastation of the towns , the burning of the country-seats , the massacre of the soldiery ; it was you who had ruined them , it was you who had murdered them ! I hate you ! Your very name gnaws me like remorse ! You are execrated more than the plague , and the Roman war ! The provinces shudder at your fury , the furrows are full of corpses ! I have followed the traces of your fires as though I were travelling behind Moloch ! "" Matho leaped up ; his heart was swelling with colossal pride ; he was raised to the stature of a god . With quivering nostrils and clenched teeth she went on : "" As if your sacrilege were not enough , you came to me in my sleep covered with the zaimph ! Your words I did not understand ; but I could see that you wished to drag me to some terrible thing at the bottom of an abyss . "" Matho , writhing his arms , exclaimed : "" No ! no ! it was to give it to you ! to restore it to you ! It seemed to me that the goddess had left her garment for you , and that it belonged to you ! In her temple or in your house , what does it matter ? are you not all-powerful , immaculate , radiant and beautiful even as Tanith ? "" And with a look of boundless adoration he added : "" Unless perhaps you are Tanith ? "" "" I , Tanith ! "" said Salammbo to herself . They left off speaking . The thunder rolled in the distance . Some sheep bleated , frightened by the storm . "" Oh ! come near ! "" he went on , "" come near ! fear nothing ! "" Formerly I was only a soldier mingled with the common herd of the Mercenaries , ay , and so meek that I used to carry wood on my back for the others . Do I trouble myself about Carthage ! The crowd of its people move as though lost in the dust of your sandals , and all its treasures , with the provinces , fleets , and islands , do not raise my envy like the freshness of your lips and the turn of your shoulders . But I wanted to throw down its walls that I might reach you to possess you ! Moreover , I was revenging myself in the meantime ! At present I crush men like shells , and I throw myself upon phalanxes ; I put aside the sarissae with my hands , I check the stallions by the nostrils ; a catapult would not kill me ! Oh ! if you knew how I think of you in the midst of war ! Sometimes the memory of a gesture or of a fold of your garment suddenly seizes me and entwines me like a net ! I perceive your eyes in the flames of the phalaricas and on the gilding of the shields ! I hear your voice in the sounding of the cymbals . I turn aside , but you are not there ! and I plunge again into the battle ! "" He raised his arms whereon his veins crossed one another like ivy on the branches of a tree . Sweat flowed down his breast between his square muscles ; and his breathing shook his sides with his bronze girdle all garnished with thongs hanging down to his knees , which were firmer than marble . Salammbo , who was accustomed to eunuchs , yielded to amazement at the strength of this man . It was the chastisement of the goddess or the influence of Moloch in motion around her in the five armies . She was overwhelmed with lassitude ; and she listened in a state of stupor to the intermittent shouts of the sentinels as they answered one another . The flames of the lamp kindled in the squalls of hot air . There came at times broad lightning flashes ; then the darkness increased ; and she could only see Matho's eyeballs like two coals in the night . However , she felt that a fatality was surrounding her , that she had reached a supreme and irrevocable moment , and making an effort she went up again towards the zaimph and raised her hands to seize it . "" What are you doing ? "" exclaimed Matho . "" I am going back to Carthage , "" she placidly replied . He advanced folding his arms and with so terrible a look that her heels were immediately nailed , as it were , to the spot . "" Going back to Carthage ! "" He stammered , and , grinding his teeth , repeated : "" Going back to Carthage ! Ah ! you came to take the zaimph , to conquer me , and then disappear ! No , no ! you belong to me ! and no one now shall tear you from here ! Oh ! I have not forgotten the insolence of your large tranquil eyes , and how you crushed me with the haughtiness of your beauty ! ' Tis my turn now ! You are my captive , my slave , my servant ! Call , if you like , on your father and his army , the Ancients , the rich , and your whole accursed people ! I am the master of three hundred thousand soldiers ! I will go and seek them in Lusitania , in the Gauls , and in the depths of the desert , and I will overthrow your town and burn all its temples ; the triremes shall float on the waves of blood ! I will not have a house , a stone , or a palm tree remaining ! And if men fail me I will draw the bears from the mountains and urge on the lions ! Seek not to fly or I kill you ! "" Pale and with clenched fists he quivered like a harp whose strings are about to burst . Suddenly sobs stifled him , and he sank down upon his hams . "" Ah ! forgive me ! I am a scoundrel , and viler than scorpions , than mire and dust ! Just now while you were speaking your breath passed across my face , and I rejoiced like a dying man who drinks lying flat on the edge of a stream . Crush me , if only I feel your feet ! curse me , if only I hear your voice ! Do not go ! have pity ! I love you ! I love you ! "" He was on his knees on the ground before her ; and he encircled her form with both his arms , his head thrown back , and his hands wandering ; the gold discs hanging from his ears gleamed upon his bronzed neck ; big tears rolled in his eyes like silver globes ; he sighed caressingly , and murmured vague words lighter than a breeze and sweet as a kiss . Salammbo was invaded by a weakness in which she lost all consciousness of herself . Something at once inward and lofty , a command from the gods , obliged her to yield herself ; clouds uplifted her , and she fell back swooning upon the bed amid the lion's hair . The zaimph fell , and enveloped her ; she could see Matho's face bending down above her breast . "" Moloch , thou burnest me ! "" and the soldier's kisses , more devouring than flames , covered her ; she was as though swept away in a hurricane , taken in the might of the sun . He kissed all her fingers , her arms , her feet , and the long tresses of her hair from one end to the other . "" Carry it off , "" he said , "" what do I care ? take me away with it ! I abandon the army ! I renounce everything ! Beyond Gades , twenty days' journey into the sea , you come to an island covered with gold dust , verdure , and birds . On the mountains large flowers filled with smoking perfumes rock like eternal censers ; in the citron trees , which are higher than cedars , milk-coloured serpents cause the fruit to fall upon the turf with the diamonds in their jaws ; the air is so mild that it keeps you from dying . Oh ! I shall find it , you will see . We shall live in crystal grottoes cut out at the foot of the hills . No one dwells in it yet , or I shall become the king of the country . "" He brushed the dust off her cothurni ; he wanted her to put a quarter of a pomegranate between her lips ; he heaped up garments behind her head to make a cushion for her . He sought for means to serve her , and to humble himself , and he even spread the zaimph over her feet as if it were a mere rug . "" Have you still , "" he said , "" those little gazelle's horns on which your necklaces hang ? You will give them to me ! I love them ! "" For he spoke as if the war were finished , and joyful laughs broke from him . The Mercenaries , Hamilcar , every obstacle had now disappeared . The moon was gliding between two clouds . They could see it through an opening in the tent . "" Ah , what nights have I spent gazing at her ! she seemed to me like a veil that hid your face ; you would look at me through her ; the memory of you was mingled with her beams ; then I could no longer distinguish you ! "" And with his head between her breasts he wept copiously . "" And this , "" she thought , "" is the formidable man who makes Carthage tremble ! "" He fell asleep . Then disengaging herself from his arm she put one foot to the ground , and she perceived that her chainlet was broken . The maidens of the great families were accustomed to respect these shackles as something that was almost religious , and Salammbo , blushing , rolled the two pieces of the golden chain around her ankles . Carthage , Megara , her house , her room , and the country that she had passed through , whirled in tumultuous yet distinct images through her memory . But an abyss had yawned and thrown them far back to an infinite distance from her . The storm was departing ; drops of water splashing rarely , one by one , made the tent-roof shake . Matho slept like a drunken man , stretched on his side , and with one arm over the edge of the couch . His band of pearls was raised somewhat , and uncovered his brow ; his teeth were parted in a smile ; they shone through his black beard , and there was a silent and almost outrageous gaiety in his half-closed eyelids . Salammbo looked at him motionless , her head bent and her hands crossed . A dagger was displayed on the table of cypress-wood at the head of the bed ; the sight of the gleaming blade fired her with a sanguinary desire . Mournful voices lingered at a distance in the shade , and like a chorus of geniuses urged her on . She approached it ; she seized the steel by the handle . At the rustling of her dress Matho half opened his eyes , putting forth his mouth upon her hands , and the dagger fell . Shouts arose ; a terrible light flashed behind the canvas . Matho raised the latter ; they perceived the camp of the Libyans enveloped in great flames . Their reed huts were burning , and the twisting stems burst in the smoke and flew off like arrows ; black shadows ran about distractedly on the red horizon . They could hear the shrieks of those who were in the huts ; the elephants , oxen , and horses plunged in the midst of the crowd crushing it together with the stores and baggage that were being rescued from the fire . Trumpets sounded . There were calls of "" Matho ! Matho ! "" Some people at the door tried to get in . "" Come along ! Hamilcar is burning the camp of Autaritus ! "" He made a spring . She found herself quite alone . Then she examined the zaimph ; and when she had viewed it well she was surprised that she had not the happiness which she had once imagined to herself . She stood with melancholy before her accomplished dream . But the lower part of the tent was raised , and a monstrous form appeared . Salammbo could at first distinguish only the two eyes and a long white beard which hung down to the ground ; for the rest of the body , which was cumbered with the rags of a tawny garment , trailed along the earth ; and with every forward movement the hands passed into the beard and then fell again . Crawling in this way it reached her feet , and Salammbo recognised the aged Gisco . In fact , the Mercenaries had broken the legs of the captive Ancients with a brass bar to prevent them from taking to flight ; and they were all rotting pell-mell in a pit in the midst of filth . But the sturdiest of them raised themselves and shouted when they heard the noise of platters , and it was in this way that Gisco had seen Salammbo . He had guessed that she was a Carthaginian woman by the little balls of sandastrum flapping against her cothurni ; and having a presentiment of an important mystery he had succeeded , with the assistance of his companions , in getting out of the pit ; then with elbows and hands he had dragged himself twenty paces further on as far as Matho's tent . Two voices were speaking within it . He had listened outside and had heard everything . "" It is you ! "" she said at last , almost terrified . "" Yes , it is I ! "" he replied , raising himself on his wrists . "" They think me dead , do they not ? "" She bent her head . He resumed : "" Ah ! why have the Baals not granted me this mercy ! "" He approached so close he was touching her . "" They would have spared me the pain of cursing you ! "" Salammbo sprang quickly back , so much afraid was she of this unclean being , who was as hideous as a larva and nearly as terrible as a phantom . "" I am nearly one hundred years old , "" he said . "" I have seen Agathocles ; I have seen Regulus and the eagles of the Romans passing over the harvests of the Punic fields ! I have seen all the terrors of battles and the sea encumbered with the wrecks of our fleets ! Barbarians whom I used to command have chained my four limbs like a slave that has committed murder . My companions are dying around me , one after the other ; the odour of their corpses awakes me in the night ; I drive away the birds that come to peck out their eyes ; and yet not for a single day have I despaired of Carthage ! Though I had seen all the armies of the earth against her , and the flames of the siege overtop the height of the temples , I should have still believed in her eternity ! But now all is over ! all is lost ! The gods execrate her ! A curse upon you who have quickened her ruin by your disgrace ! "" She opened her lips . "" Ah ! I was there ! "" he cried . "" I heard you gurgling with love like a prostitute ; then he told you of his desire , and you allowed him to kiss your hands ! But if the frenzy of your unchastity urged you to it , you should at least have done as do the fallow deer , which hide themselves in their copulations , and not have displayed your shame beneath your father's very eyes ! "" "" What ? "" she said . "" Ah ! you did not know that the two entrenchments are sixty cubits from each other and that your Matho , in the excess of his pride , has posted himself just in front of Hamilcar . Your father is there behind you ; and could I climb the path which leads to the platform , I should cry to him : ' Come and see your daughter in the Barbarian's arms ! She has put on the garment of the goddess to please him ; and in yielding her body to him she surrenders with the glory of your name the majesty of the gods , the vengeance of her country , even the safety of Carthage ! ' "" The motion of his toothless mouth moved his beard throughout its length ; his eyes were riveted upon her and devoured her ; panting in the dust he repeated : "" Ah ! sacrilegious one ! May you be accursed ! accursed ! accursed ! "" Salammbo had drawn back the canvas ; she held it raised at arm's length , and without answering him she looked in the direction of Hamilcar . "" It is this way , is it not ? "" she said . "" What matters it to you ? Turn away ! Begone ! Rather crush your face against the earth ! It is a holy spot which would be polluted by your gaze ! "" She threw the zaimph about her waist , and quickly picked up her veils , mantle , and scarf . "" I hasten thither ! "" she cried ; and making her escape Salammbo disappeared . At first she walked through the darkness without meeting any one , for all were betaking themselves to the fire ; the uproar was increasing and great flames purpled the sky behind ; a long terrace stopped her . She turned round to right and left at random , seeking for a ladder , a rope , a stone , something in short to assist her . She was afraid of Gisco , and it seemed to her that shouts and footsteps were pursuing her . Day was beginning to break . She perceived a path in the thickness of the entrenchment . She took the hem of her robe , which impeded her , in her teeth , and in three bounds she was on the platform . A sonorous shout burst forth beneath her in the shade , the same which she had heard at the foot of the galley staircase , and leaning over she recognised Schahabarim's man with his coupled horses . He had wandered all night between the two entrenchments ; then disquieted by the fire , he had gone back again trying to see what was passing in Matho's camp ; and , knowing that this spot was nearest to his tent , he had not stirred from it , in obedience to the priest's command . He stood up on one of the horses . Salammbo let herself slide down to him ; and they fled at full gallop , circling the Punic camp in search of a gate . Matho had re-entered his tent . The smoky lamp gave but little light , and he also believed that Salammbo was asleep . Then he delicately touched the lion's skin on the palm-tree bed . He called but she did not answer ; he quickly tore away a strip of the canvas to let in some light ; the zaimph was gone . The earth trembled beneath thronging feet . Shouts , neighings , and clashing of armour rose in the air , and clarion flourishes sounded the charge . It was as though a hurricane were whirling around him . Immoderate frenzy made him leap upon his arms , and he dashed outside . The long files of the Barbarians were descending the mountain at a run , and the Punic squares were advancing against them with a heavy and regular oscillation . The mist , rent by the rays of the sun , formed little rocking clouds which as they rose gradually discovered standards , helmets , and points of pikes . Beneath the rapid evolutions portions of the earth which were still in the shadow seemed to be displaced bodily ; in other places it looked as if huge torrents were crossing one another , while thorny masses stood motionless between them . Matho could distinguish the captains , soldiers , heralds , and even the serving-men , who were mounted on asses in the rear . But instead of maintaining his position in order to cover the foot-soldiers , Narr ' Havas turned abruptly to the right , as though he wished himself to be crushed by Hamilcar . His horsemen outstripped the elephants , which were slackening their speed ; and all the horses , stretching out their unbridled heads , galloped at so furious a rate that their bellies seemed to graze the earth . Then suddenly Narr ' Havas went resolutely up to a sentry . He threw away his sword , lance , and javelins , and disappeared among the Carthaginians . The king of the Numidians reached Hamilcar's tent , and pointing to his men , who were standing still at a distance , he said : "" Barca ! I bring them to you . They are yours . "" Then he prostrated himself in token of bondage , and to prove his fidelity recalled all his conduct from the beginning of the war . First , he had prevented the siege of Carthage and the massacre of the captives ; then he had taken no advantage of the victory over Hanno after the defeat at Utica . As to the Tyrian towns , they were on the frontiers of his kingdom . Finally he had not taken part in the battle of the Macaras ; and he had even expressly absented himself in order to evade the obligation of fighting against the Suffet . Narr ' Havas had in fact wished to aggrandise himself by encroachments upon the Punic provinces , and had alternately assisted and forsaken the Mercenaries according to the chances of victory . But seeing that Hamilcar would ultimately prove the stronger , he had gone over to him ; and in his desertion there was perhaps something of a grudge against Matho , whether on account of the command or of his former love . The Suffet listened without interrupting him . The man who thus presented himself with an army where vengeance was his due was not an auxiliary to be despised ; Hamilcar at once divined the utility of such an alliance in his great projects . With the Numidians he would get rid of the Libyans . Then he would draw off the West to the conquest of Iberia ; and , without asking Narr ' Havas why he had not come sooner , or noticing any of his lies , he kissed him , striking his breast thrice against his own . It was to bring matters to an end and in despair that he had fired the camp of the Libyans . This army came to him like a relief from the gods ; dissembling his joy he replied : "" May the Baals favour you ! I do not know what the Republic will do for you , but Hamilcar is not ungrateful . "" The tumult increased ; some captains entered . He was arming himself as he spoke . "" Come , return ! You will use your horsemen to beat down their infantry between your elephants and mine . Courage ! exterminate them ! "" And Narr ' Havas was rushing away when Salammbo appeared . She leaped down quickly from her horse . She opened her ample cloak and spreading out her arms displayed the zaimph . The leathern tent , which was raised at the corners , left visible the entire circuit of the mountain with its thronging soldiers , and as it was in the centre Salammbo could be seen on all sides . An immense shouting burst forth , a long cry of triumph and hope . Those who were marching stopped ; the dying leaned on their elbows and turned round to bless her . All the Barbarians knew now that she had recovered the zaimph ; they saw her or believed that they saw her from a distance ; and other cries , but those of rage and vengeance , resounded in spite of the plaudits of the Carthaginians . Thus did the five armies in tiers upon the mountain stamp and shriek around Salammbo . Hamilcar , who was unable to speak , nodded her his thanks . His eyes were directed alternately upon the zaimph and upon her , and he noticed that her chainlet was broken . Then he shivered , being seized with a terrible suspicion . But soon recovering his impassibility he looked sideways at Narr ' Havas without turning his face . The king of the Numidians held himself apart in a discreet attitude ; on his forehead he bore a little of the dust which he had touched when prostrating himself . At last the Suffet advanced towards him with a look full of gravity . "" As a reward for the services which you have rendered me , Narr ' Havas , I give you my daughter . Be my son , "" he added , "" and defend your father ! "" Narr ' Havas gave a great gesture of surprise ; then he threw himself upon Hamilcar's hands and covered them with kisses . Salammbo , calm as a statue , did not seem to understand . She blushed a little as she cast down her eyelids , and her long curved lashes made shadows upon her cheeks . Hamilcar wished to unite them immediately in indissoluble betrothal . A lance was placed in Salammbo's hands and by her offered to Narr ' Havas ; their thumbs were tied together with a thong of ox-leather ; then corn was poured upon their heads , and the grains that fell around them rang like rebounding hail ."	Prose/Lyrical
1535	The future of the media business belongs to those who embrace platforms for data sharing : from Flickr ( people sharing photos ) to Facebook ( people sharing personal information ) , how content gets shared is now just as critical as the content itself . Enter Sportso : the future of sharing sports information . Sportso is XML Team's open , web-based editorial and distribution system . Developed to satisfy the needs and speeds of professional sports editors and ordinary fans alike , Sportso is also uniquely flexible and user-friendly . Its functionality allows for easy data entry and league management by groups as diverse as professional news-gathers and rec-league scorekeepers . Sportso was recently adopted as the editorial platform for the National Sports Content Sharing Network , an affiliation of over 70 major North American metropolitan newspapers , who needed a new , dependable , and cost-effective way to share content across their online and print publications . Engineered through years of experience with clients as diverse as Reuters , ESPN , blogger networks , Topps , NHL.com , and major league teams , Sportso lets you generate , shape , share , and give away or license content that you own . And it 's versatile : syndicating your data , your way , as XML , as HTML , or as Pagination System-ready formats such as Adobe InDesign and Quark XPress .	Promotion
336	NOTE : N and U in the Navigable column above indicates that the node is navigable or unnavigable . If a D appears here it means that navigation is difficult or restricted to smaller craft . River Avon ( Bristol ) Description : Navigable from Hanham Lock , Bristol , ( the junction with the Kennet and Avon Canal ) to Avonmouth . The river is navigable for sea-going craft from Avonmouth to Bristol Docks . History : Made navigable following Acts of 1700 , 1749 , 1803 , 1806 , 1808 and 1809 . Navigation between Hanham Mills and Bath opened in 1727 . For more details see the History page Points of Interest : There is a fast ebb run down towards Netham Dam after the highest spring tides opposite St Anne's Board Mills . Under the conditions it is essential to carry an anchor , so in an emergency craft are not swept onto the Dam . Navigation Authority : Head Office : British Waterways , MD's Office : Southern Waterways , General Manager : South West Waterways , Alexandra Warehouse , West Quay , The Dock , Gloucester GL2 2LG : Telephone 01452 318000 : Fax 01452 318076 : The tidal Avon Related Articles Bristol Beckons Related Books The Bristol Avon by Ernest Walls , 318 pages , Published by Arrowsmith 1927 Rivers of England series . Includes drawings . The Canals of South and South East England by Charles Hadfield , ISBN 0 7153 4693 8 : 393 pages , Published by David & Charles 1969 Order now from . The Bristol Avon - A Pictorial History by Josephine Jeremiah , ISBN 1 86077 362 1 : 134 pages , Published by Phillimore & Co. 2005 Traces the history of the river from earliest times to the 20th century . Over 180 photographs . Order now from . Related Videos A Journey Down The Bristol Avon Produced by Heritage Video Films Ltd Starting in the foothills of the Cotswolds and continuing down through Malmesbury , Tetbury , Bradford-On-Avon , Bath and finally Bristol . Available on tape . Order on video tape from Related Photographs River Avon ( Bristol ) : Cumberland Basin Entrance Lock No 2 SS Great Britain River Avon ( Bristol ) : Cumberland Basin Entrance Lock No 2 Trip narrowboat River Avon ( Bristol ) : Cumberland Basin Entrance Lock No 2 Nb Toria in Floating Harbour River Avon ( Bristol ) : Avonmouth Sailing Ship - Eye of the Wind Avon : Bristol The Floating Harbour River Avon ( Bristol ) : Cumberland Basin Entrance Lock No 2 Industrial Museum Avon : Bristol Related External Web Sites Anglo Welsh : A large narrowboat hire company with a good choice of bases and boats . The Bristol Packet : Public & Charter Boat Trips on the river Avon between Bath and the Bristol Channel and in Bristol's Floating Harbour Messing About on The River : Trip boat and day hire boats on the Bristol Avon . Related Cruising Logs 12th May 1995 15th May 1995 20th June 1999 22nd July 2001 23rd July 2001 29th July 2003 Other Related Pages Cruising Times Lock Sizes and maximum craft dimensions : Through the Cumberland Basin Entrance Lock : length 324 foot 9 inches , beam 48 foot 10 inches . Through Netham Lock : length 80 foot , beam 17 foot 8 inches . NOTE : For more details of maximum lock and craft sizes and the basis of these figures see Craft and Lock Sizes Page River Avon ( Bristol ) : Table of distances Miles Locks Navigable ( N ) Grid ref OS Map No Kennet and Avon Navigation Junction Junction with Kennet and Avon Canal 0.0 0 N ST646700 172 Hanham ( Former Colliery Wharf ) 1.5 0 N ST634717 172 Conham 1.9 0 N ST629718 172 Netham Lock No 1 Netham Lock generally has its gates open to feed the City Docks locks and graving docks . It is generally only used against floods and tides that exceed the crest of Netham Dam . 3.5 1 N ST615727 172 Cumberland Basin Entrance Lock No 2 Bristol 6.5 2 N ST567724 172 Cliffton Suspension Bridge 6.9 2 N ST564730 172 Pill 11.1 2 N ST526761 172 Avonmouth Junction with River Severn 13.1 2 N ST502787 172 NOTE : N and U in the Navigable column above indicates that the node is navigable or unnavigable . If a D appears here it means that navigation is difficult or restricted to smaller craft . River Avon ( Hampshire ) Description : Although the river was once made navigable for 36 miles from Christchurch to Salisbury boats are no longer able to use the waterway . History : In 1535 a commission was appointed to remove weirs and obstructions from the river but no work seems to have been done . In 1664 / 5 an Act was passed but work did not start until 1675 and the navigation opened in 1684 . Traffic ceased about 1705 . For more details see the History page River Blyth Description : A five and a half mile tidal navigation near Southwold , Suffolk . Runs from the River Mouth to Blythburgh . History : An Act of 1757 authorised the navigation but the locks were closed in 1934 , by an order under the 1930 Land Drainage Act . For more details see the History page Related Books The Canals of Eastern England by John Boyes & Ronald Russell , ISBN 0 7153 7415 X : 368 pages , Published by David & Charles 1 1977 Order now from . Other Related Pages The Blyth Navigation : Article on the navigation by Brian Holt . River Cart Description : Navigation improvements to the White Cart , Renfrewshire . History : Authorised by two Acts of 1753 and 1787 , the only work , on a cut , followed the second Act . For more details see the History page Related Books The Canals of Scotland by Jean Lindsay , Edition : 1st edition ISBN 7153 4240 1 : 238 pages , Published by David & Charles 1968 Order now from . River Colne Description : A tidal navigation from Colchester to Colne Point . The top three and a half miles are practically dry at low water . History : Promoted by acts of 1623 , 1689 , 1718 , 1740 , 1750 and 1781 . For more details see the History page Points of Interest : Maximum length 195 foot , width 28 foot . Navigation Authority :: Colchester Borough Council , PO Box 884 , Town Hall , Colchester CO1 1FR : Telephone 01206 837316 : Fax 01206 282288 : Related Books Down Tops ' l - The story of East Coast Sailing Barges by H Benham , Edition : 2nd edition , revised 192 pages , Published by George G Harrap & Co. 1971 This illustrated work includes river and creek navigation on the Crouch , Colne and Roach . The Canals of Eastern England by John Boyes & Ronald Russell , ISBN 0 7153 7415 X : 368 pages , Published by David & Charles 1 1977 Order now from	Information/Explanation
185	Held at the Palais des Nations , Geneva , on Thursday , 30 August 2007 , at 10.15 a . m . President : Mr. Faysal KHABBAZ HAMOUI ( Syrian Arab Republic ) The PRESIDENT ( spoke in Arabic ) : I declare open the 1080th plenary meeting of the Conference on Disarmament . At the outset , I should like to extend a warm welcome on behalf of the Conference on Disarmament to the participants in the United Nations Programme of Fellowships on Disarmament who are observing the proceedings of this plenary . I am quite sure they will benefit from their participation in this forum , especially from the presentations that will be made to them on the various aspects of the work of the Conference . On behalf of the Conference on Disarmament and on my own behalf , I should like to bid farewell to Ambassador Elisabeth Bonnier , our distinguished colleague from Sweden , who will be leaving Geneva soon to take up other important duties , having brought with her a wealth of experience gained within the Swedish Foreign Ministry and abroad , including a first round from 1983 to 1988 in the Conference on Disarmament and also as a member of the Secretary-General's Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters . Ambassador Elisabeth Bonnier joined us in 2003 as the Permanent Representative of Sweden to the United Nations Office and other international organizations in Geneva . As a representative of a country with a pre-eminent focus on multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation , she has always been actively and insistently involved in the effort to break the deadlock in this body and to resume the substantive work . I should like to express my particular gratitude to her for her extensive efforts to end the stalemate in this body as one of the six Presidents of this year's session . On behalf of the Conference and on my own behalf , I would like to convey to Ambassador Bonnier every wish for success and happiness . While we are sad to see Ambassador Bonnier leave Geneva , I am happy to extend a cordial welcome to our new colleague from Canada , Ambassador Marius Grinius . On behalf of the Conference on Disarmament and on my own behalf , I would like to assure Ambassador Grinius of our readiness to provide him with every kind of assistance and support for his work in Geneva . Before turning to the speakers for today , I would like to introduce the Presidential report on the third part of the 2007 session . I closely followed the consultations that the former President of the Conference on Disarmament , Ambassador Jürg Streuli , held on the Presidential proposal . I also followed the work of the six Presidents on the same matter . A series of meetings were held with a large number of Ambassadors of member States . Allow me to summarize the results of these activities as set forth in the Presidential report on part 3 of the 2007 session , which was distributed to you today by the secretariat . My evaluation of the results consists of three points . The first point is that a wide range of delegations expressed their support for the Presidential proposal based on the three annexed documents , L. 1 CRP . 5 and CRP . 6 . Although some delegations expressed reservations about certain elements of the proposal , they said that they were willing to join the consensus on the proposal . Others expressed the view that more work and consultations were needed to reach a consensus . The second point is that the Conference on Disarmament has achieved substantial progress by conducting important thematic debates on all agenda items . However , it has not yet been able to reach a consensus on a programme of work . As to the third point , momentum has been created to end the long-standing impasse at the Conference on Disarmament and efforts to reach an agreement must be continued . This is the summary of the three points contained in the Presidential report on part 3 of the 2007 session . I should now like to open the floor to any delegations that wish to make a statement at today's meeting . I have no speakers on my list . Does any delegation wish to take the floor ? The Ambassador of Sweden . You have the floor . Ms. BORSIIN BONNIER ( Sweden ) : Mr. President , I thank you very much , and initially , let me warmly welcome you on the assumption of the Chair of this august body . Although I will be leaving Geneva , I assure you that my delegation will continue to do its utmost to support you in the important tasks ahead . I also thank you warmly for your initial kind remarks on my person . This is my last plenary meeting , and therefore , in line with the traditions of the CD , I will conclude with a few personal remarks . Mr. President , for altogether nine years , as you noted , I have entered this Council chamber with hope and with expectations . I have seen this room being the anchor of sincere multilateral work to bring about a more secure world . At times the Conference on Disarmament has even been the centre of gravity for the international community in Geneva . I have seen it vibrating with energy , bold ideas , creative intellect focused on problem-solving and a determination to make a difference and to turn the tide . Important pieces of international law have been negotiated here ; compliance with vital norms has been discussed and defended with vigour and conviction . But I have also seen the opposite : an anaemic stalemate with delegations resorting to recitals of ceremonious mantras , covering up the traces of their own passivity with useless finger-pointing and blame games , hiding behind the commas of the rules of procedure and shamelessly abusing the consensus rule to abort any attempt to seriously tackle difficult or sensitive issues - in effect taking the whole multilateral approach to disarmament and arms control hostage to their own particular perceptions , preferences or dictates . But still , I continue to enter this room with hope and expectations . The certainties of yesterday are gone . Security perceptions , threats and challenges are in a state of flux . New dangers are emerging , adding to the burden of the old ones . But the debate of old versus new threats is a meaningless one . Unless we try to face both , neither will be dealt with . In the nuclear field we see more brinkmanship than statesmanship . Globalization works to make complex weapon technologies widely available . Military expenses have risen to well beyond a trillion United States dollars . The illusion of an impenetrable defence is taking new forms . Our space assets with their huge scientific and economic potentials are not secure . Cyber-wars are no longer just science fiction , but can disrupt our societies on a massive scale . The overall balance between global security problems solved and those unsolved is , I believe , negative . The uncertainties of tomorrow are , however - and let us not forget - the opportunities of today . Reluctantly or enthusiastically we will have to accept that global problems in a time of galloping globalization can not be solved unilaterally , bilaterally or even in small circles of like-minded nations . Global security must be built globally . Effective multilateralism is both necessary and possible . It means that the legitimate security concerns of all States must be acknowledged . It means seizing opportunities when they arise . It means reconsidering positions that yield no results . And it means a readiness to give and take . Global security can never be a zero-sum game . Just as the rule of law is a fundamental cornerstone in domestic affairs , so it must also be in international affairs . Without it we will be on the slippery slope towards anarchy and the use of force . Laws are sometimes broken , but this does not make them less essential . Quite the opposite . It reinforces the need to uphold and strengthen them . This is particularly important in the area of international security relations . But there are serious lacunae , both as regards the laws themselves and our ability to see them complied with . We do have a forum where we can approach all these difficult realities together . It is called the Conference on Disarmament . Rejecting the use of the CD is irresponsible . Those blocking the potentials of this body should understand that they are inflicting real damage not only to the security of others , to our common security , but in the long run also to their own . Since the beginning of this year I have had the privilege of working as one of the P-6 . This Presidential sextet has jointly and consistently tried to put the CD back to work , tried to move us from talk shop to workshop , tried to make us take on the challenges of our time . And by now , most delegations stand ready to try . We have come very close to begin a beginning . As I am now leaving , I am sorry not to be with you when you cross the last bridge . Because cross it you will . There is no other way . Now there remains for me only to express my many and sincere thanks : to the Secretary-General for his support , wisdom and friendship , always at our side . To my fellow P-6 colleagues and our coordinators for their remarkable team spirit and seriousness of purpose . To my colleagues , the CD Ambassadors and their delegations for their many expressions of support and friendship . To everyone in the secretariat who keeps toiling for us in good spirits and solidarity . To the interpreters who try to make sense of our sometimes incomprehensible utterings in all languages . And to the representatives of civil society who with great patience and frustration stay engaged . Thank you all . When I leave this Council chamber today I will do so as I have always entered it - with hope and expectations . The PRESIDENT ( spoke in Arabic ) : I thank the Ambassador of Sweden for her kind wishes addressed to the Conference , and we in turn wish her every success . The delegation of France has asked for the floor . You have the floor , Madam . Ms. RAMIS-PLUM ( France ) ( spoke in French ) : I simply wished to raise a point of a technical or even presentational nature in the draft decision which is attached to the report on the third part of our session . I think there is simply a small presentational matter which , in the opinion of my delegation , needs to be rectified . The body of decision L. 1 has been separated presentationally from the complementary Presidential statement . We consider that , in the original version of this document these two elements which from a whole were together and should remain together , as they were in the text of decision L. 1 which has been distributed until now . The PRESIDENT ( spoke in Arabic ) : I thank the representative of France . We shall discuss this matter with the secretariat . Does any delegation wish to make a statement ? I do not see any . Concerning next week's work , the secretariat , later this afternoon , will place the draft report on the 2007 session in the members' pigeonholes . For ease of access , the secretariat will also send out an electronic copy , in PDF format , to the regional coordinators , who can then distribute the document to the members of their respective groups . Next week , i . e . on Tuesday 4 September 2007 , I will proceed with the first reading . As usual , this will be done at an informal meeting right after the formal plenary , which will start at 10 a . m . in this room . Before bringing this morning's work to a close I wish to make some comments on the final report . First , I should like to thank my colleagues the Ambassadors of the G-6 for their strong support for this draft report . I also wish to thank the secretariat for its outstanding efforts which helped us to complete this draft on time for it to be translated into all the United Nations official languages . As I have already said , the G-6 chairpersons helped us to prepare this report and supported it once it had been completed . The report reflects the consensus in the group . We all hope that this consensus will lead to a consensus within the Conference , especially given that the G-6 represents a wide cross section of the Conference membership . We look forward to your cooperation in adopting this report , which we endeavoured to ensure would contain an objective and impartial account of the proceedings at this year's Conference . We did our utmost to take account of the concerns of all the members , which was not an easy task . The President hopes that when the draft text is discussed next Tuesday , it will enjoy the support of you all , that you will take account of these comments , and show the necessary flexibility for its adoption . Thank you for your understanding . Before closing the meeting , does any delegation wish to take the floor ? I see none . I declare this meeting adjourned . The meeting rose at 10.45 a . m . ( Ms. Borsiin Bonnier , Sweden ) ( The President )	Opinion/Argumentation
1466	"Solomon revealed this source more than 3,000 years ago , and modern science has now confirmed it ! The Key to Healing is to Remove the One Source of Illness and Disease Dr. Ben Johnson's personal story below is just one of the thousands of stories of healing from people who have used The Healing Codes . In 2003 , Dr. Ben Johnson visited an orthopedic surgeon to discuss symptoms of fatigue and muscle spasms he had been experiencing for over a year . The diagnosis was something he never expected ... ALS ( more commonly known as "" Lou Gehrig's Disease "" ) . He then went to another doctor for a second opinion , but the diagnosis was the same . As a medical doctor , Ben knew his prognosis was grim . Eighty percent of people with ALS die within 5 years of developing symptoms , and he had been experiencing symptoms for over a year . Shortly after his diagnosis , Ben learned of Dr. Alex Loyd's new work known as The Healing Codes . Ben was intrigued by the amazing stories of healing being experienced by Dr. Loyd's patients , so he decided to personally investigate the science and philosophy of The Healing Codes . He came away convinced that there really was something remarkable in Dr. Loyd's new work , and began practicing The Healing Codes himself . After only three months of practicing The Healing Codes , Ben could tell that he was no longer experiencing the symptoms of ALS . He returned to the surgeon who had first diagnosed him with ALS , and the tests showed that the disease was 100 % gone . Ben has remained symptom free for over 6 years now ! After personally experiencing the results of The Healing Codes techniques , Ben has traveled all over the world telling people about The Healing Codes . Just as Dr. Ben Johnson experienced healing of his ALS using The Healing Codes , literally thousands of people using The Healing Codes have experienced healing of issues such as diabetes , migraines , depression , cancer , back pain , addictions , insomnia , hemorrhoids , scoliosis , and much , much more . The Healing Codes have also successfully been used to resolve virtually all kinds of relationship issues and success issues . Based on their combined research and experience , Dr. Loyd and Dr. Johnson have teamed up to bring you their new book , The Healing Code . In this revolutionary book , Dr. Loyd reveals a "" Universal Healing Code "" that will successfully heal virtually any issue for the vast majority of people .... whether the issue is physical , emotional , relational , or success oriented . "" The Healing Codes are the greatest healing discovery in history .... Once you try this Healing Code , your life will begin to change instantly – try it and watch it happen ! "" Bonus # 1 Heart Issues Finder – The only assessment of its kind in the world that identifies your source issues and gives you a 10-15 page personalized report pinpointing the issues you can use The Healing Codes to address . Bonus # 2 "" The Seven Secrets to Life , Health , and Prosperity "" – VIDEO - In this video Dr. Alex Loyd and Dr. Ben Johnson shares these seven secrets on which a portion of this book is based . Bonus # 3 "" Personal Tracking Form "" for you to use and record your healing journey . Bonus # 4 "" Sample Truth Focus Statements "" in the Twelve Categories to help you do The Healing Codes . Bonus # 5 Monthly editions of "" Life or Death : The Secret Spiritual Laws of Nature "" newsletter from Dr. Alex Loyd sent to you via email for a full year . The Healing Codes are directing healing energy toward cellular memories that are incomplete , incorrect , or misguided . It 's those memories that create the stress and the resultant issue ( s ) . However , there will undoubtedly be many other physical and emotional manifestations resulting from those broken memories besides the issue of your immediate focus . Do n't be surprised if other areas of your life change first , e.g. , broken relationships healed , unexplained internal peace , etc. You should always be looking for other areas in your life that mysteriously "" heal . "" Enjoy the fruit of those healings along the way to the resolution of your target concern . About"	Promotion
1235	"Definitions vary , though everyone seems to agree that the muscles of the trunk form the basis of the "" core "" . At its simplest , it might be helpful to visualise the core as a cylinder , with a wide corset-like band running around the central part of the torso . The muscles of the lower spine form the rear of the cylinder , while the abdominal muscles make up the front . The pelvic floor forms the bottom of the cylinder and the thoracic diaphragm ( found just below the lungs ) can be thought of as the top . Other muscles in the back , bottom and even legs are often credited with contributing to this picture , but let 's keep it simple for now . so what does the core do ? The muscles of the core have many different functions - too many ( and in some cases , too intimate ! ) to examine in detail in this brief summary . Posturally speaking , the core muscles work together in order to stabilise the spine , ribs and pelvis of the body . In doing so , they help to align the entire skeleton , keeping it aligned despite whatever external forces the body encounters . And that function of ' keeping things under control ' when moving ( i.e. resisting dynamic force ) is key . Without it , any movement , whether making a serve on the centre court at Wimbledon or reaching up to take something down from a high shelf , runs the risk of transferring unnecessary stress to the bones , joints and muscles of the spine . Over time , the cumulative effect of such uncorrected stresses and strains can lead to back pain . It is n't just while the body is moving that the core is working . Although we may be unaware of it , even standing still requires a continual adjustment and fine-tuning of the body in order to keep balanced and upright . The deep postural muscles of the body ( of which the core is a part ) are specifically designed to keep us aligned and vertical . Without their contribution , other non-postural muscles have to be recruited in order to help us stay standing . Unlike the postural muscles , these other muscles tire quickly . So lack of core strength can result in us feeling more fatigued in our muscles and less able to perform everyday movements effectively . Think about what happens when we are tired : the spine curves ; we sag forward ; the head hangs ; the neck muscles are permanently in tension , just to stop our head lolling forwards . Poor posture places strain on a variety of muscles that are not designed to hold us upright , which we feel as tension and , eventually , pain . strengthening the core The concept of core strength training has become popular in recent years . In truth , there is some academic debate about the exact benefits of specific training that isolates the core alone for special attention . In practice , as part of a whole-body conditioning method such as Pilates , stabilisation of the lower back area is known to have a beneficial effect . Although Joseph Pilates never used the term "" core "" , he often referred to the central area of the body ( including the hips and bottom ) as the "" powerhouse "" , the conditioning of which he felt formed a vital part of his exercise system . Over the years , the Pilates technique has been modified and refined . Still , for many exercises and styles of Pilates , correct form is regarded as first ' drawing up ' the pelvic floor and ' drawing in ' the abdominal area ( which is not the same as sucking the tummy button in ! ) , with the intention of engaging the powerhouse ( core ) before performing the exercise . As befits such an important part of the body , a large proportion of the Pilates repertoire involves the core in some way . Many Pilates exercises pay special attention to this area - some subtly and some more overtly . Specific exercises for the core include the Bridge , the Curl Up , the Roll Up and many more . However , even leg exercises involve core control . With practice , the engagement of the abdominal area in order to stabilise the spine before carrying out a challenging movement becomes a habit in the Pilates studio - and hopefully outside it too . A well-designed Pilates session will work the body in a balanced way , involving all major joints and parts of the body . But , looking at how many of his original exercises involve the "" powerhouse "" , it is tempting to think that Joseph Pilates himself always thought that what we now call "" the core "" warranted a little extra attention !"	Instruction
206	"Industrial Development Board Twenty-fifth session Vienna , 15-16 May 2002 Item 4 of the provisional agenda Report by the Director-General The financial situation as at 31 March 2002 can be summarized in the following major points : ( a ) The regular budget is being implemented with an initial allocation of 97 per cent of the 2002 appropriations . Expenditure for the first quarter amounted to 26.5 per cent ; ( b ) The operational budget recorded a surplus of € 1 . 6 million during the first quarter of 2002 ; therefore , the level of the operational budget reserve increased from € 3 . 3 million ( $ 2 . 98 million ) as at 1 January 2002 to € 4 . 9 million as at 31 March 2002 ; ( c ) The level of regular budget cash resources ( including the Working Capital Fund and the unencumbered balances of appropriations ) was € 34 . 7 million . In comparison , the cash balance as at 31 March 2001 and 2000 was € 29 . 8 million and € 24 . 3 million , respectively ; ( d ) The collection rate of 2002 assessed contributions was 47.2 per cent and was favourable compared to the 2001 and 2000 rates of 35.7 and 35.9 per cent , respectively ; ( e ) The collection rate of prior years' arrears , as compared to the current year's assessments , was 2.3 per cent . The rates as at 31 March 2001 and 2000 , as compared to the assessments of those years , were 12.4 and 2.7 per cent , respectively ; ( f ) Outstanding contributions amounted to € 144 . 9 million ( including arrears of € 69 . 3 million by the United States of America , and € 2 . 1 million by the former Yugoslavia ) ( annex I ) . The outstanding amounts as at 31 March 2001 and 2000 were € 152 . 7 million and € 158 . 6 million , respectively ( for comparison revalued at the December 2001 United Nations rate of exchange , $ 1 = € 1 . 123 , in accordance with GC . 9 / Dec. 15 ) ; ( g ) The Working Capital Fund is at the level of € 7 , 423 , 030 ( $ 6 , 610 , 000 converted at the December rate of $ 1 = € 1 . 123 ) . However , an amount of € 259 , 212 was outstanding as at 31 March 2002 ; ( h ) Pursuant to General Conference decision GC . 9 / Dec. 12 , Ukraine and UNIDO signed a payment plan on 25 March 2002 , and the first instalment under the plan was received on 28 December 2001 . Consultations are continuously taking place with a number of Member States regarding settlement of their arrears through payment plans ; ( i ) In compliance with General Conference decision GC . 9 / Dec. 10 , unencumbered balances of appropriations , income from new Member States and interest income in excess of budgetary estimates ( total amount € 7 , 195 , 414 ) are being allocated as requested by Member States ( annex II ) ; ( j ) Recent actions and developments with respect to the transition to a single currency system , as well as issues encountered , are provided as background information in a conference room paper ( IDB . 25 / CRP . 3 ) . Regular and operational budgets , 2002-2003 Regular budget implementation of the approved programme and budgets , 2002-2003 , commenced as planned . In view of the expected collection rate of assessed contributions of some 97 per cent during the year ( both for current and prior years ) , as well as the healthy cash position of the Organization at the beginning of 2002 , an average release of 97 per cent of the appropriations for 2002 under the regular budget , including UNIDO's share of Buildings Management Services , was approved . This included 100 per cent release for staff costs , the Regular Programme of Technical Cooperation , field operating costs and information technology ; and an average of 86.3 per cent under consultants , travel , meetings and operating costs . The pattern compares favourably with the start of the 2000-2001 biennium , whereby after the first three months of 2000 only 90 per cent of appropriations were released . The Buildings Management gross appropriation was released at the level of 96 per cent , reflecting the actual higher-than-budgeted vacancy rate under established posts . Operating costs were fully released . Expenditure during the period 1 January to 31 March 2002 amounted to € 18 . 1 million under the regular budget . This amount corresponds to 26.5 per cent of the total appropriation for 2002 and is comparable with the preceding biennium . The current value represents a smooth budget implementation with a lesser risk of delaying or non-implementing approved programmes . The initial allocation under the operational budget was set at 95 per cent of the approved estimate . With a $ 32 million delivery of technical cooperation activities as of 31 March 2002 ( delivery as of 31 March 2001 for the same period was $ 27 million ) , income for the first quarter amounted to € 4 . 1 million ( $ 3 . 6 million ) for support cost reimbursement . Expenditure for the same period amounted to € 2 . 5 million , leading to a surplus of € 1 . 6 million during the first quarter of 2002 . Therefore , the level of the operational budget reserve increased from € 3 . 3 million ( $ 2 . 98 million ) as at 1 January 2002 to € 4 . 9 million as at 31 March 2002 . Regular and operational budgets , 2000-2001 The accounts for the biennium 2000-2001 have been submitted for audit to the External Auditor . In accordance with legislative mandates , the report of the External Auditor , financial performance report and programme performance report for the biennium 2000-2001 will be submitted to the twenty-sixth session of the Board through the Programme and Budget Committee . The overall implementation of the regular budget for the last biennium was 96.4 per cent , resulting in a provisional surplus of $ 4 , 248 , 200 , which represents 3.6 per cent of the restated appropriations after applying the adjustment formula shown in the GC . 8 / Dec. 17 to take account of the average exchange rate actually experienced during the biennium . This implementation compares favourably with the last four bienniums ( 1998-1999 : 91.7 per cent ; 1996-1997 : 80.7 per cent ; 1994-1995 : 88.3 per cent ; 1992-1993 : 94.5 per cent ) . The higher implementation of the biennium 2000-2001 is due to the favourable cash position of the Organization , which , inter alia , has resulted from a better collection rate of both current and prior years ' assessed contributions . The programme support cost income of the operational budget for the biennium amounted to $ 18 . 65 million , with expenditures of $ 17 . 29 million . As a result , the operational budget recorded a surplus of $ 1 . 36 million . The reserve level thus increased from $ 1 . 62 million on 1 January 2000 to $ 2 . 98 million as at 31 December 2001 . Technical cooperation delivery during 2001 amounted to $ 84 . 7 million . However , should technical services at the programme and project levels of United Nations Development Programme and Industrial Development Decade for Africa supplementary activities be included , the volume of technical services provided by UNIDO during the year totalled more than $ 90 million . Collections A total of 27 Member States , including two least developed countries ( LDCs ) , have made full payments and 20 Member States , including five LDCs , have made partial payments of their assessed contributions for the year 2002 . The collections in the period from January to March 2002 , broken down by Lists of States , are shown in table 1 . Table 1 . Collections , January-March 2002 ( In millions of euros ) * As contained in document GC . 9 / 16 . Outstanding contributions The detailed status of assessed contributions outstanding as at 31 March 2002 is contained in annex I to the present document . The scale of assessment and outstanding contributions as at 31 March 2002 , broken down by Lists of States , are shown in table 2 . Table 2 . Scale of assessment and outstanding contributions , as at 31 March 2002 * As contained in document GC . 9 / 16 . On 6 December 2000 , the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia deposited the instrument of accession to the Constitution of UNIDO and thus became a new Member State . As the former Yugoslavia has ceased to exist , a decision will have to be taken with regard to the treatment of the arrears of the former Yugoslavia , amounting to € 2 , 084 , 146 . The issue is among the items on the agenda of the United Nations General Assembly and document A / 56 / 767 of 9 January 2002 contains details . The Secretariat is closely following further developments and any decision to be taken by the General Assembly in this respect will be conveyed to the UNIDO governing bodies . As indicated in annex I to the present document and as summarized in table 3 , the voting rights of 61 Member States had been suspended as at 31 March 2002 in accordance with Article 5.2 of the Constitution and financial regulation 5.5 ( b ) . Table 3 . Suspension of voting rights , as at 31 March In order to restore their voting rights for the remainder of 2002 , these Member States must pay their full contributions for 1999 and prior years , including advances to the Working Capital Fund , as well as a partial contribution for 2000 . The minimum total amount that would have to be paid by these Member States is € 22 , 259 , 710 . Information was provided in document GC . 9 / 10 of 22 October 2001 on the implementation of the measures recommended by the open-ended discussion group on timely payment of assessed contributions . Since that time one payment plan has been concluded ( with Ukraine , as approved by the General Conference in decision GC . 9 / Dec. 12 ) , and the first instalment under the plan has been received . Informal consultations are continuously taking place with a number of Member States regarding settlement of their arrears through payment plans . As reported in document GC . 9 / 10 , the United States of America owes € 69 , 264 , 731 ( equivalent to $ 61 , 678 , 302 ) , against assessed contributions for the years 1994-1996 and € 953 , 547 ( $ 849 , 107 ) against the Tax Reimbursement Agreement – a total amount of € 70 , 218 , 278 . There has been no further development on the collection of this amount , although the Secretariat has again followed up this year with the Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations ( Vienna ) for the settlement of the arrears . PRIATIONS , INCOME FROM NEW MEMBER STATES AND INTEREST INCOME IN EXCESS OF BUDGETARY ESTIMATES Detailed information on the unencumbered balances of appropriations , income from new Member States and interest income in excess of budgetary estimates was provided in document GC . 9 / 10 . The following amounts in euros were due for distribution to eligible Member States ( i . e . those that had fully paid their assessed contributions for the respective biennium ) in accordance with financial regulations 4.2 ( b ) and ( c ) : While adopting the decision on the scale of assessments ( GC . 9 / Dec. 10 ) , the General Conference strongly encouraged Member States to consider renouncing voluntarily their shares of the balances and income referred to above , for the regular budget and / or for technical cooperation activities of UNIDO , and requested the Director-General to report to the Board on the amounts renounced and purposes specified by Member States . From early January 2002 , the Secretariat solicited from Member States their intention as to the utilization of their respective share and requested replies to be returned by 28 February 2002 . Responses received as at 31 March 2002 are shown in annex II and are summarized below . As reported in various documents , including GC . 9 / 10 ( chap . VII ) , UNIDO gradually introduced a new computerized financial performance control system ( FPCS ) during 2000-2001 . After one year of parallel operation of the previous mainframe system and FPCS , UNIDO has been using FPCS as the sole system for all accounting transactions since 1 January 2002 . The parallel operation was helpful in fine-tuning the application and adjusting procedures to make best use of the features offered by the new system . The switch-over coincided with the introduction of the euro as the base currency for UNIDO's accounts . Most of the remaining issues with the new system are related to the requirement of continuing the accounting for technical cooperation activities in United States dollars , whereas the base currency is now the euro . Work will also continue in the area of designing various reports based on transaction data captured by the new system as well as linking it to existing executive management systems . In addition , the application will be rolled out to all staff involved in financial operations for capturing data at the point of origin , and enabling staff to have on-line information on the status of activities for which they are responsible . In accordance with General Conference decision GC . 8 / Dec. 16 , a single currency system of assessment based on the euro became effective with the current fiscal period 2002-2003 . Since the adoption of that decision in 1999 , the Secretariat has kept Member States informed of steps taken for the introduction of the single currency system . Recent action and developments with respect to the transition , as well as issues encountered , are provided as background information in a conference room paper ( IDB . 25 / CRP . 3 ) , and a document on the subject will be issued to the Programme and Budget Committee at its forthcoming eighteenth session . Among the steps taken in compliance with decision GC . 8 / Dec. 16 was the amendment of the concomitant Financial Regulations of UNIDO . A conference room paper containing the updated regulations will be issued under the symbol IDB . 25 / CRP . 4 . The Industrial Development Board may wish to consider adopting the following draft decision : "" The Industrial Development Board : "" ( a ) Takes note of the information provided in document IDB . 25 / 6 ; "" ( b ) Also takes note of the information on the implementation of General Conference decision GC . 9 / Dec. 10 ( IDB . 25 / 6 , chap . VI ) ; "" ( c ) Urges those Member States that have not yet paid their assessed contributions , including advances to the Working Capital Fund and prior years' arrears , to do so without delay . "" Annex I As at 31 March 2002 ( in Euros ) Notes : ( p ) Partial payment . Voting rights of 61 Member States have been suspended in accordance with Article 5.2 of the Constitution of UNIDO . Four Members of the Industrial Development Board are without voting rights : Belarus , Côte d ' Ivoire , Guatemala and Libyan Arab Jamahiriya . The General Conference has approved a payment plan for Ukraine to settle its arrears and its voting right was regained ( GC . 9 / Dec. 12 ) . Outstanding contribution to be resolved following decision by the United Nations General Assembly . Member State of UNIDO until 31 December 1996 . Since 31 March 2002 , full or partial payments were received from the following Member States : Belgium , Côte d ' Ivoire , Cuba , Cyprus , Denmark , Ecuador , Guatemala , Mexico and Oman ( an update will be issued as a conference room paper ) . Annex II STATUS OF UNENCUMBERED BALANCES OF APPROPRIATIONS , INCOME FROM NEW MEMBER STATES AND INTEREST INCOME IN EXCESS OF BUDGETARY ESTIMATES ( GC . 9 / Dec. 10 ) As at 31 March 2002 ( in Euros ) Provides information on the financial situation of UNIDO , including arrears , as at 31 March 2002 . Also refers to the initial experience of the Organization in the transition to a single currency system of assessment . A conference room paper will be issued during the session to provide updated information on the status of assessed contributions , voting rights and disposition of unencumbered balances of appropriations , income from new Member States and interest income in excess of budgetary estimates . For reasons of economy , this document has been printed in a limited number . Delegates are kindly requested to bring their copies of documents to meetings ."	Information/Explanation
797	Local Biodiversity Action Plans Local Biodiversity Action Plans ( BAPs ) are the mechanism for local delivery of the targets set out in the national plan . Each local BAP identifies local priorities for the protection of distinct habitats and species . Local BAPs are developed by Local Authorities in partnership with stakeholders such as the Environment Agency , landowners and conservation groups . Each BAP reflects the priorities of the national plan , covering priority habitats and species which are at risk , as well as more common ' broad ' habitats and local species .	Information/Explanation
762	A sample of the Microsoft Excel Worksheet for each location is as shown below ; it generates the sinusoidal model , calculates the energy outputs as well as the error estimation for a given set of basic tidal data and turbine parameters . Samples of graphs generated for each location are as below . These graphs show the power output profile based on the sinusoidal model . They also show how well the sinusoidal model matches to the chart data .	Instruction
903	"But at this Catriona began to cry out with a vast deal of agitation . She had asked of Captain Sang , she said , and the fare was but an English shilling . "" Do you think I will have come on board and not ask first ? "" cries she . The patroon scolded back upon her in a lingo where the oaths were English and the rest right Hollands ; till at last ( seeing her near tears ) I privately slipped in the rogue's hand six shillings , whereupon he was obliging enough to receive from her the other shilling without more complaint . No doubt I was a good deal nettled and ashamed . I like to see folk thrifty but not with so much passion ; and I daresay it would be rather coldly that I asked her , as the boat moved on again for shore , where it was that she was trysted with her father . "" He is to be inquired of at the house of one Sprott , an honest Scotch merchant , "" says she ; and then with the same breath , "" I am wishing to thank you very much--you are a brave friend to me . "" "" It will be time enough when I get you to your father , "" said I , little thinking that I spoke so true . "" I can tell him a fine tale of a loyal daughter . "" "" O , I do not think I will be a loyal girl , at all events , "" she cried , with a great deal of painfulness in the expression . "" I do not think my heart is true . "" "" Yet there are very few that would have made that leap , and all to obey a father's orders , "" I observed . "" I can not have you to be thinking of me so , "" she cried again . "" When you had done that same , how would I stop behind ? And at all events that was not all the reasons . "" Whereupon , with a burning face , she told me the plain truth upon her poverty . "" Good guide us ! "" cried I , "" what kind of daft-like proceeding is this , to let yourself be launched on the continent of Europe with an empty purse--I count it hardly decent--scant decent ! "" I cried . "" You forget James More , my father , is a poor gentleman , "" said she . "" He is a hunted exile . "" "" But I think not all your friends are hunted exiles , "" I exclaimed . "" And was this fair to them that care for you ? Was it fair to me ? was it fair to Miss Grant that counselled you to go , and would be driven fair horn-mad if she could hear of it ? Was it even fair to these Gregory folk that you were living with , and used you lovingly ? It 's a blessing you have fallen in my hands ! Suppose your father hindered by an accident , what would become of you here , and you your lee-alone in a strange place ? The thought of the thing frightens me , "" I said . "" I will have lied to all of them , "" she replied . "" I will have told them all that I had plenty . I told her too . I could not be lowering James More to them . "" I found out later on that she must have lowered him in the very dust , for the lie was originally the father 's not the daughter's , and she thus obliged to persevere in it for the man's reputation . But at the time I was ignorant of this , and the mere thought of her destitution and the perils in which she must have fallen , had ruffled me almost beyond reason . "" Well , well , well , "" said I , "" you will have to learn more sense . "" I left her mails for the moment in an inn upon the shore , where I got a direction for Sprott's house in my new French , and we walked there--it was some little way--beholding the place with wonder as we went . Indeed , there was much for Scots folk to admire ; canals and trees being intermingled with the houses ; the houses , each within itself , of a brave red brick , the colour of a rose , with steps and benches of blue marble at the cheek of every door , and the whole town so clean you might have dined upon the causeway . Sprott was within , upon his ledgers , in a low parlour , very neat and clean , and set out with china and pictures and a globe of the earth in a brass frame . He was a big-chafted , ruddy , lusty man , with a crooked hard look to him ; and he made us not that much civility as offer us a seat . "" Is James More Macgregor now in Helvoet , sir ? "" says I. "" I ken nobody by such a name , "" says he , impatient-like . "" Since you are so particular , "" says I , "" I will amend my question , and ask you where we are to find in Helvoet one James Drummond , alias Macgregor , alias James More , late tenant in Iveronachile ? "" "" Sir , "" says he , "" he may be in Hell for what I ken , and for my part I wish he was . "" "" The young lady is that gentleman's daughter , sir , "" said I , "" before whom , I think you will agree with me , it is not very becoming to discuss his character . "" "" I have nothing to make either with him , or her , or you ! "" cries he in his gross voice . "" Under your favour , Mr. Sprott , "" said I , "" this young lady is come from Scotland seeking him , and by whatever mistake , was given the name of your house for a direction . An error it seems to have been , but I think this places both you and me--who am but her fellow-traveller by accident--under a strong obligation to help our countrywoman . "" "" Will you ding me daft ? "" he cries . "" I tell ye I ken naething and care less either for him or his breed . I tell ye the man owes me money . "" "" That may very well be , sir , "" said I , who was now rather more angry than himself . "" At least I owe you nothing ; the young lady is under my protection ; and I am neither at all used with these manners , nor in the least content with them . "" As I said this , and without particularly thinking what I did , I drew a step or two nearer to his table ; thus striking , by mere good fortune , on the only argument that could at all affect the man . The blood left his lusty countenance . "" For the Lord's sake dinna be hasty , sir ! "" he cried . "" I am truly wishfu ' no to be offensive . But ye ken , sir , I 'm like a wheen guid-natured , honest , canty auld fallows--my bark is waur nor my bite . To hear me , ye micht whiles fancy I was a wee thing dour ; but na , na ! its a kind auld fellow at heart , Sandie Sprott ! And ye could never imagine the fyke and fash this man has been to me . "" "" Very good , sir , "" said I. "" Then I will make that much freedom with your kindness , as trouble you for your last news of Mr. Drummond . "" "" You 're welcome , sir ! "" said he . "" As for the young leddy ( my respec's to her ! ) he 'll just have clean forgotten her . I ken the man , ye see ; I have lost siller by him ere now . He thinks of naebody but just himsel ' ; clan , king , or dauchter , if he can get his wameful , he would give them a ' the go-by ! ay , or his correspondent either . For there is a sense in whilk I may be nearly almost said to be his correspondent . The fact is , we are employed thegether in a business affair , and I think it 's like to turn out a dear affair for Sandie Sprott . The man 's as guid 's my pairtner , and I give ye my mere word I ken naething by where he is . He micht be coming here to Helvoet ; he micht come here the morn , he michtnae come for a twalmonth ; I would wonder at naething--or just at the ae thing , and that 's if he was to pay me my siller . Ye see what way I stand with it ; and it 's clear I 'm no very likely to meddle up with the young leddy , as ye ca ' her . She cannae stop here , that 's ae thing certain sure . Dod , sir , I 'm a lone man ! If I was to tak her in , its highly possible the hellicat would try and gar me marry her when he turned up . "" "" Enough of this talk , "" said I. "" I will take the young lady among better friends . Give me pen , ink , and paper , and I will leave here for James More the address of my correspondent in Leyden . He can inquire from me where he is to seek his daughter . "" This word I wrote and sealed ; which while I was doing , Sprott of his own motion made a welcome offer , to charge himself with Miss Drummond's mails , and even send a porter for them to the inn . I advanced him to that effect a dollar or two to be a cover , and he gave me an acknowledgment in writing of the sum . Whereupon ( I giving my arm to Catriona ) we left the house of this unpalatable rascal . She had said no word throughout , leaving me to judge and speak in her place ; I , upon my side , had been careful not to embarrass her by a glance ; and even now although my heart still glowed inside of me with shame and anger , I made it my affair to seem quite easy . "" Now , "" said I , "" let us get back to yon same inn where they can speak the French , have a piece of dinner , and inquire for conveyances to Rotterdam ."	Prose/Lyrical
1662	"Planos ( Planes ) is a chamber-music composition by the Mexican composer Silvestre Revueltas , also slightly enlarged and scored for full orchestra and published under its alternate title , Danza geométrica ( Geometric Dance ) . Both versions were composed in 1934 , and the scores are both dedicated to the architect Ricardo Ortega . From at least as early as 1926 , the architect Ricardo Ortega had encouraged Revueltas to take his composing more seriously , and showed some of his early scores to Edgard Varèse . When , in 1934 , Revueltas composed Planos with a structure clearly alluding to architectural models , he dedicated the score to his architect friend . Although Revueltas is often regarded as a Mexican nationalist with strong populist leanings , Planos contains no obvious reference to folklore . It is one of his purest musical works , in which the use of any folk-like musical elements is almost imperceptible ( Sánchez-Gutierrez 1996 , 7 , 48 ) . His references to geometry , though more programmatic than Varèse's , nevertheless indicate a kinship with the older composer's work in a shared overall linear character . Revueltas was certainly aware of Varèse's music and aesthetics in the 1920s , when the two composers had exchanged correspondence ( Sánchez-Gutierrez 1996 , 14 , 29 – 30 ) . The chamber-music version was completed in March 1934 , and was reorchestrated in June of the same year for full orchestra ( Slonimsky 1945 , 250 ) . Revueltas described the work as functional architecture , which does not exclude sentiment . Melodic fragments derive from the same impulse , the same emotion as my other works ; they sing in persistent rhythms , ever in motion ; they produce sonorities that may seem strange because they are not common . My rhythms and sonorities are reminiscent of other rhythms and sonorities , just as building material in architecture is identical with any building material , but it serves for constructions that are different in meaning , form , and expression . ( Revueltas 1989 , 212 – 13 , translated in Slonimsky 1945 , 248 ) The chamber version , published as Planos , is scored for a nonet : B ♭ clarinet , B ♭ bass clarinet , bassoon , C trumpet , piano , 2 violins , cello , and double bass . This heterogenous scoring , reminiscent of provincial bands , resembles those of other Revueltas scores , such as Alcancías and Colorines ( both from 1932 ) , Toccata sin Fuga ( 1933 ) , and the slightly later Homenaje a Federico García Lorca ( Sánchez-Gutierrez 1996 , 37 – 38 ) . The large-orchestra version , published as Danza geométrica , is scored for piccolo , 2 flutes , 2 E ♭ clarinets , 2 B ♭ clarinets , B ♭ bass clarinet , 3 bassoons ( 3rd doubling contrabassoon ) , 4 horns , 4 trumpets , 3 trombones , tuba , percussion ( 4 players : xylophone , glockenspiel , large and small tamtams , bass drum , slapstick , cymbal , large gong , tambourine , and tubular bells ) , 2 pianos , and strings . The larger ensemble seems to have required a temporal expansion as well . Two sections in the first half are extended and rewritten with newly added melodic material , the return of the opening material at the end is recast , and occasional motivic repetitions are added throughout ( Archibald 1966 ) . Planos departs from the ternary A – B – A form Revueltas habitually employed in single-movement works . Instead , it is freely structured and through-composed ( Hernández 2009 , 80 ) . It is constructed in modular , mosaic fashion from six generating motives , each with several variant forms . These motives are manipulated and juxtaposed , resulting in their continual re-contextualization ( Sánchez-Gutierrez 1996 , 29 , 33 – 34 , 122 – 24 ) . The identity of each of these motivic groups is intensified by the use of particular timbres , intensities , articulations , registers , melodic contours , meters , rhythmic patterns , and durations . Revueltas combines them into a whole through the use of sequencing , double and triple superimposition , stretto , fragmentation , extension , and shadowing , united by a complex design of ostinatos and rhythmic planes . The resulting musical discourse is often both flowing and abrupt , "" a faithful mirror of the daily battle within the conflicting imagery of his inner and outer worlds "" ( Kolb Neuhaus 1998 ) . When the influence of Igor Stravinsky on the orchestral version was suggested , the composer reacted : It was performed last year . Opinion was divided . Some thought that it was Stravinsky ; who knows what Stravinsky would have thought . Because it uses two pianos and some gongs , the chords at the beginning and end recall the sonority of the final chords of Les noces by Stravinsky ; however , they are neither the same notes nor the same intervals , which probably bestows upon them an even stronger resemblance . ( Revueltas 1989 , 212 ) Archibald , Bruce . 1966 . "" Silvestre Revueltas : Danza geometrica . New York : Southern Music Publishing Co. , 1964 "" ( review ) . Notes , second series , 23 , no . 2 ( December ) : 345 . Hernández , Juan de Dios . 2009 . "" Nationalism and Musical Architecture in the Symphonic Music of Silvestre Revueltas "" . DMA diss . Tucson : University of Arizona . Hoag , Charles . 2002 . "" Algunos aspectos de las melodías de Revueltas "" . In Diálogo de resplandores : Carlos Chávez y Silvestre Revueltas , edited by Ricardo Miranda Pérez and Yael Bitrán , 109 – 17 . México , D.F. : Consejo Nacional para la Cultura y las Artes ( CONACULTA ) ( Dirección General de Publicaciones ) . ISBN 978-970-18-8409-6 . Ruppli , Michel , and Ed Novitsky . 1998 . The MGM Labels : Additional Recordings . Volume 3 of The MGM Labels : A Discography . Discographies : Association for Recorded Sound Collections Discographic Reference Series 75 . Greenwood Press . ISBN 9780313300523 ."	Information/Explanation
978	Use this facility to search the contents of the EPCEW site , including the Book of Church Order , the Westminster Standards and the Directories for Public and Family Worship . Keywords : Any All Phrase Look in : BCO WCF WLC WSC DPW DFW Search Tips The search is case-insensitive . Use the character ' * ' to match any string . Advanced Search You can specify how the search terms are to be interpreted by selecting the search mode as follows : Mode Action Any Any documents containing at least one of the search terms will be listed . All Only documents containing all of the search terms will be listed . Phrase The list of search terms is treated as a single phrase , and all documents containing that phrase will be listed . For even finer control , you can select the Any mode and use special characters in the search terms to control the search . You may insist that a particular word or phrase is present by preceding it with the plus ' + ' character . To match a phrase , enclose it with double quote	Instruction
667	ATDI's business is about people – people as customers , people as employees and people as suppliers We ensure our customers are provided with the best solutions , support and advice We ensure our staff are competent , motivated and dedicated We will continue to build our expertise and use this to the benefit of our customers We will provide software and expertise for the regulation , modelling , planning and measurement for all technologies using radio spectrum . No job will be considered too small nor too large	Promotion
1171	"Help Me Please ! Question : Hello . I think I am depressed . I feel like there is no point in my life anymore . I want out . I cry myself to sleep because I 'm scared and I hate the world I live in . I am sick and tired of my crappy life .... I am depressed . Can you give me some tips not to be depressed ? Please help me and email me back . Janet ( 13 year-old girl ) Answer : Janet my dear , I almost did n't choose your question , because you gave so little information about yourself . But then I looked at your age , and I thought , ' How brave of her , how strong she must be to defy her Depression , and find a way of asking for help ! ' So , I had to try and do something for you . Janet , I know nothing about your family , where you live , how you were treated as a little child , what pressures there are on you . I am just guessing that your life is no worse than that of millions of other teenagers . So , what I write may not fit , but chances are it will . Depression is sort of a monster . It sits inside your head and whispers things to you . It 's been with you since you were little , so it can exactly imitate your thoughts . When Depression speaks , it feels like the thoughts were your own . I know , because I 've been myself where you are now . I spent YEARS of my life being miserable , simply because I did n't know that help was possible . In fact , you are ahead of me : you know that someone , somewhere , can help you . I did n't even seek help , because I thought that no-one could have done anything anyway . So I just suffered . And because I suffered , I became a better person . I am a psychologist and help people like you , because I have been terribly depressed myself . You can choose to do something similar . Start now to steer your life towards being someone who can help others to fight their problems . That will give you an aim in life , a purpose , a reason for living . How did I fight my Depression ? All by my lonely self , I invented a method that I later found to be very similar to something called Cognitive Therapy . Scientists have studied the way Depression affects people , and have developed this method -- and I had done the same for myself . And all this time , I believed myself to be stupid and useless , because that 's what my Depression had said to me , and I simply accepted it as true . Janet , when it is Depression speaking instead of you , the words and pictures going through your head will be different from when the thoughts are yours . They will be absolutes : ' I can NEVER do anything right . ' Of course you can , sometimes , and muck things up at other times . You did something right in posting this question . There are MILLIONS of kids out there who are suffering like you , but , like me , they do n't even consider asking for help . So , you are smarter than I was at your age , smarter than all those other poor kids . ' No-one loves me . ' ( or something similar like ' I have no friends at all . ' ) Janet , every time a thought involves ' always ' , ' never ' ' everyone ' , ' no-one ' and so on , it is GUARANTEED to be wrong . The world does not work like that . There are exceptions to everything . I am ABSOLUTELY SURE that there are people in your life who do love you , who feel friendly towards you , who would like to be nice to you . I ca n't find them , but you can . Look around your life now , and think back to the past . You will find them . They will say bad things about you : My worst one was ' I am an idiot ' and versions of it like ' I can NEVER do anything right ' . It may be ' I am SO ugly ! ' or whatever . Any thought that you are much worse than other people belongs here . Janet , I have never met you , but I KNOW that you have good points as well as bad . People given to depression have a double standard . It 's OK for other people to make mistakes , but if I do , that 's intolerable and I must beat myself over the head about it . Another girl is allowed to have a few pimples , and still be attractive , but if I do , it proves that no-one could love me . And so on . They will paint the world in very dark colors : ' This is TERRIBLE . ' ' Everything is so hateful . ' Whenever something bad happens in your world or shown on the news , Depression zeroes in on it and uses it as proof that the world is a terrible place . But when something good happens , when there is joy and beauty and laughter and people being kind to one another , Depression puts blinkers over your eyes so you probably wo n't even notice it . If you do notice it , Depression will tell you it 's just an oddity , or that it 's OK for others but does n't apply to you , or that others have the luck not you . And if despite all this you manage to have a good experience , Depression will make you forget it very soon . The worst is that Depression tells you that things can never get better . This is the worst of Depression's lies . It is the one that drives so many sufferers to suicide , it was the lie that stopped me from seeking help . Janet , you can beat this monster the way I did . Only , you can seek help . I do n't even know what country you live in . I do n't know how much ( or how little ) money your parents have . But somewhere near you , there will be a psychologist or social worker or school counselor who is trained in using Cognitive Therapy . You have already taken the first courageous step in defeating your depression : posting this cry for help . Now take the second : organize therapy with that person . If you ca n't , you and I might be able to work together to defeat your depression . We can use email . Only , first we need permission from your parents , and they will need to pay me a little bit of money for each ' session ' . But working with a helper face to face will be better for you at this stage . Have a good life , Bob This question was answered by Dr. Bob Rich . Dr. Rich has 31 years experience as a psychologist and is registered with the Australian Psychological Society . He practices in Australia . Dr. Rich is also a writer and a "" mudsmith "" . Bob is now retired from psychological practice , but still works with people as a counsellor ."	Instruction
1422	"DIRTT "" DIRTT is not a product . It 's a set of tightly integrated construction systems . "" "" I will bet you that in ten years you will not be building non-rated walls in commercial buildings with metal studs and drywall . It 's a dying technology near the end of its life cycle . The interiors of buildings will be factory-made , highly customizable , high quality , beautifully designed modules that will plug in to the building and last as long as the core and shell . Why design with a system that is almost dead when you could design with DIRTT which is the future ? "" "" Interior partitioning systems should be a piece of equipment that belongs to the building . When you change tenants you do n't throw the whole HVAC system into the land fill – you move the ducts around – same thing . "" "" The real differentiator is ICE . Some of our competitors can make a nice looking metal and glass wall , but no one has the integrated process that drives our whole methodology . DIRTT is really a software company that has very cool factories "" . DIRTT's focus is always on : Providing sustainable solutions , either from a material or behavioral perspective . The environment must be fully responsive to both aesthetic and functional needs , at point of creation and over time , without concern for compatibility . DIRTT's work will never be done . At no point will the product cease to evolve . DIRTT is higher quality construction . DIRTT is quicker construction . DIRTT offers more flexibility in design , and construction . DIRTT is sustainable . Adopting these simple directives drove the product solution to be indifferent to the future , to have radical aesthetic variability , and to continue to adapt and evolve in response to market and end-user needs . When you choose DIRTT you are choosing the Workscapes ' most current and adaptive options for your business , healthcare , government and educational environments ."	Promotion
642	Subject : I 've lost my boyfriend I 'm not too sure how this works but I need to talk to someone who is feeling the way I am . I lost my boyfriend in June 2004 to bone cancer & really do n't know what i 'm going to do without him , everyday is a chore , do n't want to live without him , my family help me alot but there 's only so much they can do , they have not experienced the things my boyfriend & I have . Hope to speak to someone soon . Thanks Kacy Reply from : kACY Subject : I lost my boyfriend I was sorry to here about your boyfriend , Ilost my boyfriend in June to cancer , he meant the world to me and no one understands , I miss him so much and wish I could be with him again , I find it really hard to talk about , need him to talk to , but he 's the one thing I ca n't have .	Opinion/Argumentation
346	Information for owners of cars and company vehicle drivers regarding car leasing through Jamjar This motoring concept was conceived in October 1999 and following £ 50 million of investment Jamjar turned into reality . The company are backed by Direct Line who are one of the largest car insurance companies in the UK and who in turn are members of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group . Car leasing and other related products are available via their website or through their telephone call centre and include new and used sales , loans , car leasing , insurance , and breakdown cover . The company aims at the personal car leasing market . Key product features include part exchange service should you wish to sell your vehicle , low initial deposit which is approximately 3 months rental , followed by fixed monthly payments typically lower than a loan and nothing to pay at the end . In addition to individuals this car leasing product is targeted at the company vehicle driver who has opted out of the company car scheme and chooses to receive an allowance . All the car leasing vehicles are UK specification and are sourced from Dixon Motors , a UK franchised dealer group . Potential customers can obtain car leasing quotes based upon whether the vehicle is kept for between 24 and 48 months and for mileages totaling between 8,000 and 40,000 miles . Leasing maintenance packages including servicing are also available , however , car insurance is not included and has to be arranged separately . Please note , conditions will apply for all of the leasing products and services mentioned above , please contact the company concerned for more information . Jamjar Car Leasing Website Address www . j amjar . c om Get a UK car leasing quote from the leading companies below	Promotion
340	"This is a sample agreement to provide consultancy & technical support , entered into by Neil S Bapty B. S c ( Hons ) , of ......................... , herein referred to as NSB and : - No Body herein referred to as the Customer . Commencement Date - 1 . DEFINITIONS In this Agreement , unless the context otherwise requires , the following expressions shall have the following meanings : - "" the Systems "" means the systems specified in this Agreement in Schedule B and such additions and variations to such systems as may be approved in writing by NSB for inclusion in the Agreement . "" the Customers Premises "" means the Customer's premises at which the systems are installed as specified in this Agreement in Schedule A. "" the Commencement Date "" means the date on which this Agreement shall become effective as specified above . "" the Initial Period "" means the twelve months from the Commencement Date . "" the Monthly Charge "" means the monthly charge referred to in Clause 3.1 of these conditions and specified in Schedule F. 2 . DURATION This Agreement shall commence on the Commencement Date and shall continue for the Initial Period and shall remain in force thereafter unless or until terminated by either party giving to the other not less than ninety days written notice of termination on the last day of the Initial Period or on the last day of any calendar month thereafter ( but subject to the provisions for earlier termination contained in Clauses 3.1 and 10.1 of these conditions ) or until superseded by a future agreement which includes the support of the system covered by this agreement and such additional equipment as may be agreed by NSB . 3 . CHARGES 3.1 The Customer shall pay NSB a fixed Monthly Charge in advance for each month of this Agreement . For the Initial Period the Monthly Charge shall be the amount specified in this Agreement in Schedule F. NSB shall be entitled to increase the Monthly Charge for any subsequent year or years of this Agreement after the Initial Period by giving to the Customer prior written notice of such increase , as detailed in Schedule F. Where such notice is given the Customer shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by giving NSB written notice of termination within thirty days of the date of NSB's notice of increase ( time being of the essence in this respect ) . 3.2 The Customer will pay for all work at the scale of charges for the time being in force detailed in Schedule G - Other Charges . 3.3 NSB shall be entitled to charge the Customer at NSB's standard rate of charges for the time being for any site visits or other additional work caused by the Customer's failure to comply with its obligations under this Agreement . 3.4 The Monthly Charge and any additional charges payable under this Agreement are exclusive of Value Added Tax which shall be paid by the Customer at the rate and in the manner for the time being prescribed by law . 3.5 Any charges payable by the Customer in addition to the Monthly Charge shall be paid within seven days after receipt of NSB's invoice therefor . 3.6 If any sum payable under this Agreement is not paid within seven days after the due date then ( without prejudice to NSB's other rights and remedies ) NSB reserves the right to charge interest on such sum on a day to day basis ( as well after as before any judgment ) from the due date to the date of payment ( both dates inclusive ) at the rate of Two per centum per annum above the base lending rate of the National Westminster Bank Plc for the time being in force . 3.7 The customer shall be entitled to vary the contract level , as illustrated in Schedule F , by giving a minimum of 90 days notice 4 . SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY NSB 4.1 During the continuance of this Agreement NSB shall at the Customer request : - ( a ) subject to the Customer having the necessary connected dial-up modems , NSB will provide a remote diagnosis service during "" Office "" hours . ( b ) at the Customer's request NSB will visit the Customer's Premises to diagnose the nature and cause of faults or malfunctions and will advise as to the repair or replacement of faulty equipment . ( c ) advise as to the selection , and procurement of new equipment or software . 4.2 Provide additional services as specified in Schedule D. 5 . EXCLUDED SERVICES The following are not covered by this Agreement : - 5.1 Service other than at the Customer's Premises specified in Schedule A. 5.2 Consultancy services outside the scope of the services described in Clause 4 of these Conditions . 5.3 The repair or replacement of any hardware . 6 . AVAILABILITY NSB agrees to be available a minimum of 330 days per year , subject to bookings , and will notify clients in writing of any period of unavailability greater than 3 working days . 7 . CUSTOMER'S RESPONSIBILITIES During the continuance of this Agreement the Customer shall : - 7.1 Provide NSB free of charge with adequate working space and facilities to enable NSB to carry out his duties under this Agreement . 7.2 Make available to NSB free of charge such programs operating manuals and other technical information regarding the System as may be necessary to enable NSB to perform his duties under this Agreement and if requested by NSB to provide staff familiar with the Customer's programs and operations to co-operate with NSB in the diagnosis of any fault or malfunction in the System . 7.3 Keep full security copies of the Customer's programs data bases and computer records in accordance with the best computer practice . 7.4 At the Customer's expense provide at the Customer's Premises such dial-up modems and other telecommunications facilities as may be reasonable requested by NSB for testing and diagnostic purposes , detailed in Schedule C. 7.5 Provide NSB free of charge parking facilities , where such parking facilities can reasonable be provided , or are provided to partners , directors , or employees of the customer . 7.6 Comply with specific provisions detailed in Schedule C. 8 . LIABILITY 8.1 NSB shall indemnify the Customer against any personal injury to or death of any person caused by the negligence of NSB whilst acting in the course of his duties . 8.2 Subject to Clauses 8.1 but notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement NSB shall not be liable to the Customer for any direct , indirect incidental or consequential loss or damage suffered by the Customer whether arising from negligence breach of contract or otherwise ( including but not limited to loss of profits or contracts loss of use of the System or any equipment comprised therein or loss of or damage to the Customer's programs and data ) . 8.3 NSB's total liability except under Clause 8.1 for any claims of whatever nature arising from one or more related acts or omissions under this Agreement shall not exceed Five hundred pounds . 9 . INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 9.1 The knowledge , techniques , and information NSB uses to solve problems and design solutions remains the intellectual property of NSB , and NSB reserves the right not to disclose any information other than administrative passwords to the client . 9.2 NSB reserves the right to suspend working on a problem , without warning , should he feel that the actions of the Client , their employees , or their sub-contractors , could compromise the confidentiality of his intellectual property . 9.3 The ownership of any network designed created for the client by NSB remain the property of NSB , and the client agrees not to re-use any such designs , without the written permission of NSB . 10 . TERMINATION 10.1 Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 2 of these Conditions this Agreement may be terminated : - ( a ) By NSB forthwith on giving notice in writing to the Customer if the Customer shall fail to pay any sum due under the terms of this Agreement ( otherwise than as a consequence of any default on the part of NSB ) and such sum remains unpaid for fourteen days after written notice from NSB that such sum has not been paid ( such notice to contain a warning of NSB's intention to terminate ) ; ( b ) By either party forthwith on giving notice in writing to the other if the other commits any serious breach of any term of this Agreement ( other than any failure by the Customer to make any payment hereunder in which event the provisions of paragraph ( a ) above shall apply ) and ( in the case of a breach capable of being remedied ) shall have failed to remedy the breach within 30 days after the receipt of a request in writing from the other party so to do ( such request to contain a warning of such party's intention to terminate ) . 10.2 Any termination of this Agreement howsoever occasioned shall not affect any accrued rights or liabilities of either party nor shall it affect the coming into force or the continuance in force of any provision hereof which is expressly or by implication intended to come into or continue in force on or after such termination . 11 . MISCELLANEOUS 11.1 Neither party shall be liable to the other for failure or delay in the performance of any obligation under this Agreement ( other than any obligation to pay money ) if such delay is caused by circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the party so delaying and such party shall be entitled to a reasonable extension of time for the performance of such obligations . 11.2 Neither party may assign any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party . 11.3 Neither party shall rely upon any variation of this Agreement or waiver of any of its terms unless contained or evidenced by letter or other document written on behalf of the other party . 11.5 This Agreement shall be subject to and interpreted in accordance with English law and any dispute or difference which may arise between the parties concerning this Agreement shall be determined by the High Court of Justice in England and NSB and the Customer submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of that Court for such purpose . 11.6 All notices which are required to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be sent to the address of the recipient set out in this Agreement or to such other address within the United Kingdom as the recipient may designate by written notice to the other . Any such notice may be delivered by hand or by first class pre-paid recorded deliver letter and shall be deemed to have been served if by hand when delivered if by first class post 48 hours after posting ."	Legal
1682	"The vast expanse of the African continent spans several different climatic regions and contains everything from dry deserts to rainforests to snow-covered mountaintops . Check out some of the most-impressive physical features found in Africa . Congo River Coursing through the heart of Africa , the Congo is the continent's second longest river , after the Nile . It is contained primarily in , or marks the border of , the Democratic Republic of the Congo . The river is approximately 2,900 miles ( 4 , 700 km ) long and , with its many tributaries , forms the largest network of navigable waterways in Africa ; this is in spite of the difficulty in navigating the lower course of the river , which has 32 cataracts ( waterfalls ) . The Congo River is home to hundreds of species of fish , many of which are endemic to the river . There are few aquatic mammals in the river , but various types of reptiles , such as crocodiles , semiaquatic tortoises , and water snakes , reside there . Georg Gerster / Comstock Inc. The Sahara The Sahara , which takes its name from the Arabic word for "" desert , "" is the largest hot desert in the world . With a total approximate area of 3.32 million square miles ( 8 . 6 million square km ) , it encompasses almost all of northern Africa , spanning from the Atlantic Ocean on the western side of the continent to the Red Sea on the eastern side . About one-fourth of the Sahara's surface consists of sand sheets and dunes ; other principal features include sand seas , gravel-covered plains , rocky plateaus , abrupt mountains , shallow basins , and large oases . In general , vegetation in the Sahara is limited to areas around oases , wadis ( riverbeds that are usually dry outside the rainy season ) , and the highlands . The desert has a perhaps-surprising amount of wildlife , including hundreds of types of birds ( including resident as well as migratory birds ) , gerbils , jackals , mongooses , frogs , lizards , cobras , and snails that can remain dormant for several years until they are revived by rainfall ."	Information/Explanation
767	Mitsubishi Heavy Industries has successfully tested a combined-cycle power generation system incorporating solid oxide fuel cells and a micro gas turbine , a first in Japan . MHI has been developing the system since 2004 , and the recent testing verified 75kW of power generation by the system at the company's Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works . MHI now aims to start production of a 200kW combined-cycle power generation system this October . The company will then continue developing systems with larger capacities and higher efficiency to eventually develop a system suitable for utility applications . The SOFC is a ceramic-based fuel cell that directly produces electricity by chemical reaction between oxygen in the air and hydrogen removed from city gas through reforming . The SOFC-MGT combined-cycle power generation system uses unreacted hydrogen contained in the city gas exhausted from the SOFC and hot air also discharged from the SOFC . The gas and air from the SOFC are used to drive an MGT to generate electricity . This two-stage power generation system achieved power generation efficiency above 50 per cent , significantly higher than conventional power generation systems . MHI said large-scale SOFC combined-cycle power generation system could help reduce CO 2 emissions , alongside nuclear power generation and high-efficiency utility-use thermal power generation systems . Source : The Engineer Date Published : August 08 , 2006	Information/Explanation
953	Capture your HDV video from your Sony HDV camcorder HDR-HC1 and use the powerful editing tools in VideoStudio to create your HDV movie . You must have the Sony HD plug-in for Ulead VideoStudio installed to capture HDV video . Step 1 : Capturing HDV video into VideoStudio Connect your Sony HDV camcorder to your computer's IEEE-1394 port using the IEEE-1394 cable . Turn on your camcorder and switch it to Play / Edit mode and make sure that your Sony HDV camcorder is switched to HDV mode . To check that your Sony HDV camcorder is set to HDV mode , flip open the LCD screen and see if HDVout I-Link is on the LCD screen . If you see DVout I-Link , press P-MENU at the lower-right of the LCD screen . In the menu , press MENU > STANDARD SET > VCR HDV / DV and press HDV . Open VideoStudio and click Capture on the Step Panel . In the Options Panel , click Capture Video . VideoStudio automatically detects your Sony HDV camcorder . The Source should show Sony -- HDV . If you see Sony -- MSDV in Source , you are not capturing HDV video . Please see Troubleshooting . Note : When capturing HDV , Split by Scene and DV Quick Scan are not supported . Use the Navigation Panel to go to the start of the section of the video where you want to capture and click Capture Video . Tip : The Sony HDR-HC1 HDV camcorder has a built-in function that lets you downsample HDV video to DV video . To downsample the HDV video to DV video when capturing into VideoStudio , flip open the LCD panel and press P-MENU . In the menu , press MENU > STANDARD SET > I. LINK CONV > ON HDV -- > DV . Step 2 : Editing your HDV video After capturing your HDV video , use the powerful editing tools available inside VideoStudio to edit your HDV video . To learn how to edit your HDV video in VideoStudio , refer to the manual and the online help . You can also go to our web site at and check out helpful tutorials to help you create your movies in VideoStudio . Step 3 : Sharing your HDV video After editing your video , share your HDV movie . In the Step Panel , click Share . In the Options Panel , choose either to Create Video File so you can play back in your computer or Create Disc to burn your movie to a DVD so you can play it back on a DVD player . Please refer to the manual and online help to learn how to create a video file or to create a disc . Tip : When creating a video file and the first clip on the Timeline is an HDV video , click Create Video File > Same as First Video Clip . This ensures that you retain the HDV properties when you create the video file . Troubleshooting If you are having problems with capturing HDV video into VideoStudio , check the following : If you have connected your Sony HDV camcorder before to your computer , check the Device Manager to see if your camcorder is detected as a DV device ( left image below ) or AV / C tape device ( right image below ) . If the camcorder is detected as a DV device , you can capture DV footage using VideoStudio . If the camcorder is detected as an AV / C tape device , you can capture HDV footage . To check if the proper capture plug-in and device control are being used , click Tools : Change Capture Plug-in / Select Device Control . The capture plug-in should be Ulead HDV Capture Plug-in . The Sony HDV camcorder can only be detected under Windows ® XP Service Pack 2 .	Instruction
66	"Part One , Chapter 10 When Levin went into the restaurant with Oblonsky , he could not help noticing a certain peculiarity of expression , as it were , a restrained radiance , about the face and whole figure of Stepan Arkadyevitch . Oblonsky took off his overcoat , and with his hat over one ear walked into the dining room , giving directions to the Tatar waiters , who were clustered about him in evening coats , bearing napkins . Bowing to right and left to the people he met , and here as everywhere joyously greeting acquaintances , he went up to the sideboard for a preliminary appetizer of fish and vodka , and said to the painted Frenchwoman decked in ribbons , lace , and ringlets , behind the counter , something so amusing that even that Frenchwoman was moved to genuine laughter . Levin for his part refrained from taking any vodka simply because he felt such a loathing of that Frenchwoman , all made up , it seemed , of false hair , poudre de riz , and vinaigre de toilette . He made haste to move away from her , as from a dirty place . His whole soul was filled with memories of Kitty , and there was a smile of triumph and happiness shining in his eyes . "" This way , your excellency , please . Your excellency wo n ' t be disturbed here , "" said a particularly pertinacious , white-headed old Tatar with immense hips and coat-tails gaping widely behind . "" Walk in , your excellency , "" he said to Levin ; by way of showing his respect to Stepan Arkadyevitch , being attentive to his guest as well . Instantly flinging a fresh cloth over the round table under the bronze chandelier , though it already had a table cloth on it , he pushed up velvet chairs , and came to a standstill before Stepan Arkadyevitch with a napkin and a bill of fare in his hands , awaiting his commands . "" If you prefer it , your excellency , a private room will be free directly ; Prince Golistin with a lady . Fresh oysters have come in . "" "" Ah ! oysters . "" Stepan Arkadyevitch became thoughtful . "" How if we were to change our program , Levin ? "" he said , keeping his finger on the bill of fare . And his face expressed serious hesitation . "" Are the oysters good ? Mind now . "" "" They 're Flensburg , your excellency . We 've no Ostend . "" "" Flensburg will do , but are they fresh ? "" "" Only arrived yesterday . "" "" Well , then , how if we were to begin with oysters , and so change the whole program ? Eh ? "" "" It 's all the same to me . I should like cabbage soup and porridge better than anything ; but of course there 's nothing like that here . "" "" Porridge à la Russe , your honor would like ? "" said the Tatar , bending down to Levin , like a nurse speaking to a child . "" No , joking apart , whatever you choose is sure to be good . I 've been skating , and I 'm hungry . And do n't imagine , "" he added , detecting a look of dissatisfaction on Oblonsky's face , "" that I sha n ' t appreciate your choice . I am fond of good things . "" "" I should hope so ! After all , it 's one of the pleasures of life , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch . "" Well , then , my friend , you give us two – or better say three – dozen oysters , clear soup with vegetables ... "" "" Printaniere , "" prompted the Tatar . But Stepan Arkadyevitch apparently did not care to allow him the satisfaction of giving the French names of the dishes . "" With vegetables in it , you know . Then turbot with thick sauce , then ... roast beef ; and mind it 's good . Yes , and capons , perhaps , and then sweets . "" The Tatar , recollecting that it was Stepan Arkadyevitch's way not to call the dishes by the names in the French bill of fare , did not repeat them after him , but could not resist rehearsing the whole menu to himself according to the bill : – "" Soupe printanière , turbot , sauce Beaumarchais , poulard à l ' estragon , macédoine de fruits ... etc. , "" and then instantly , as though worked by springs , laying down one bound bill of fare , he took up another , the list of wines , and submitted it to Stepan Arkadyevitch . "" What shall we drink ? "" "" What you like , only not too much . Champagne , "" said Levin . "" What ! to start with ? You 're right though , I dare say . Do you like the white seal ? "" "" Cachet blanc , "" prompted the Tatar . "" Very well , then , give us that brand with the oysters , and then we 'll see . "" "" Yes , sir . And what table wine ? "" "" You can give us Nuits . Oh , no , better the classic Chablis . "" "" Yes , sir . And your cheese , your excellency ? "" "" Oh , yes , Parmesan . Or would you like another ? "" "" No , it 's all the same to me , "" said Levin , unable to suppress a smile . And the Tatar ran off with flying coat-tails , and in five minutes darted in with a dish of opened oysters on mother-of-pearl shells , and a bottle between his fingers . Stepan Arkadyevitch crushed the starchy napkin , tucked it into his waistcoat , and settling his arms comfortably , started on the oysters . "" Not bad , "" he said , stripping the oysters from the pearly shell with a silver fork , and swallowing them one after another . "" Not bad , "" he repeated , turning his dewy , brilliant eyes from Levin to the Tatar . Levin ate the oysters indeed , though white bread and cheese would have pleased him better . But he was admiring Oblonsky . Even the Tatar , uncorking the bottle and pouring the sparkling wine into the delicate glasses , glanced at Stepan Arkadyevitch , and settled his white cravat with a perceptible smile of satisfaction . "" You do n't care much for oysters , do you ? "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch , emptying his wine glass , "" or you 're worried about something . Eh ? "" He wanted Levin to be in good spirits . But it was not that Levin was not in good spirits ; he was ill at ease . With what he had in his soul , he felt sore and uncomfortable in the restaurant , in the midst of private rooms where men were dining with ladies , in all this fuss and bustle ; the surroundings of bronzes , looking glasses , gas , and waiters – all of it was offensive to him . He was afraid of sullying what his soul was brimful of . "" I ? Yes , I am ; but besides , all this bothers me , "" he said . "" You ca n ' t conceive how queer it all seems to a country person like me , as queer as that gentleman's nails I saw at your place ... "" "" Yes , I saw how much interested you were in poor Grinevitch's nails , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch , laughing . "" It 's too much for me , "" responded Levin . "" Do try , now , and put yourself in my place , take the point of view of a country person . We in the country try to bring our hands into such a state as will be most convenient for working with . So we cut our nails ; sometimes we turn up our sleeves . And here people purposely let their nails grow as long as they will , and link on small saucers by way of studs , so that they can do nothing with their hands . "" Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled gaily . "" Oh , yes , that 's just a sign that he has no need to do coarse work . His work is with the mind ... "" "" Maybe . But still it 's queer to me , just as at this moment it seems queer to me that we country folks try to get our meals over as soon as we can , so as to be ready for our work , while here are we trying to drag out our meal as long as possible , and with that object eating oysters ... "" "" Why , of course , "" objected Stepan Arkadyevitch . "" But that 's just the aim of civilization – to make everything a source of enjoyment . "" "" Well , if that 's its aim , I 'd rather be a savage . "" "" And so you are a savage . All you Levins are savages . "" Levin sighed . He remembered his brother Nikolay , and felt ashamed and sore , and he scowled ; but Oblonsky began speaking of a subject which at once drew his attention . "" Oh , I say , are you going tonight to our people , the Shtcherbatskys ' , I mean ? "" he said , his eyes sparkling significantly as he pushed away the empty rough shells , and drew the cheese towards him . "" Yes , I shall certainly go , "" replied Levin ; "" though I fancied the princess was not very warm in her invitation . "" "" What nonsense ! That 's her manner .... Come , boy , the soup ! .... That 's her manner – grande dame , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch . "" I 'm coming , too , but I have to go to the Countess Bonina's rehearsal . Come , is n't it true that you 're a savage ? How do you explain the sudden way in which you vanished from Moscow ? The Shtcherbatskys were continually asking me about you , as though I ought to know . The only thing I know is that you always do what no one else does . "" "" Yes , "" said Levin , slowly and with emotion , "" you 're right . I am a savage . Only , my savageness is not in having gone away , but in coming now . Now I have come ... "" "" Oh , what a lucky fellow you are ! "" broke in Stepan Arkadyevitch , looking into Levin's eyes . "" Why ? "" "" I know a gallant steed by tokens sure , And by his eyes I know a youth in love , "" declaimed Stepan Arkadyevitch . "" Everything is before you . "" "" Why , is it over for you already ? "" "" No ; not over exactly , but the future is yours , and the present is mine , and the present – well , it 's not all that it might be . "" "" How so ? "" "" Oh , things go wrong . But I do n't want to talk of myself , and besides I ca n ' t explain it all , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch . "" Well , why have you come to Moscow , then ? .... Hi ! take away ! "" he called to the Tatar . "" You guess ? "" responded Levin , his eyes like deep wells of light fixed on Stepan Arkadyevitch . "" I guess , but I ca n ' t be the first to talk about it . You can see by that whether I guess right or wrong , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch , gazing at Levin with a subtle smile . "" Well , and what have you to say to me ? "" said Levin in a quivering voice , feeling that all the muscles of his face were quivering too . "" How do you look at the question ? "" Stepan Arkadyevitch slowly emptied his glass of Chablis , never taking his eyes off Levin . "" I ? "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch , "" there 's nothing I desire so much as that – nothing ! It would be the best thing that could be . "" "" But you 're not making a mistake ? You know what we 're speaking of ? "" said Levin , piercing him with his eyes . "" You think it 's possible ? "" "" I think it 's possible . Why not possible ? "" "" No ! do you really think it 's possible ? No , tell me all you think ! Oh , but if ... if refusal 's in store for me ! ... Indeed I feel sure ... "" "" Why should you think that ? "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch , smiling at his excitement . "" It seems so to me sometimes . That will be awful for me , and for her too . "" "" Oh , well , anyway there 's nothing awful in it for a girl . Every girl 's proud of an offer . "" "" Yes , every girl , but not she . "" Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled . He so well knew that feeling of Levin's , that for him all the girls in the world were divided into two classes : one class – all the girls in the world except her , and those girls with all sorts of human weaknesses , and very ordinary girls : the other class – she alone , having no weaknesses of any sort and higher than all humanity . "" Stay , take some sauce , "" he said , holding back Levin's hand as it pushed away the sauce . Levin obediently helped himself to sauce , but would not let Stepan Arkadyevitch go on with his dinner . "" No , stop a minute , stop a minute , "" he said . "" You must understand that it 's a question of life and death for me . I have never spoken to any one of this . And there 's no one I could speak of it to , except you . You know we 're utterly unlike each other , different tastes and views and everything ; but I know you 're fond of me and understand me , and that 's why I like you awfully . But for God's sake , be quite straightforward with me . "" "" I tell you what I think , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch , smiling . "" But I 'll say more : my wife is a wonderful woman ... "" Stepan Arkadyevitch sighed , remembering his position with his wife , and , after a moment's silence , resumed – "" She has a gift of foreseeing things . She sees right through people ; but that 's not all ; she knows what will come to pass , especially in the way of marriages . She foretold , for instance , that Princess Shahovskaya would marry Brenteln . No one would believe it , but it came to pass . And she 's on your side . "" "" How do you mean ? "" "" It 's not only that she likes you – she says that Kitty is certain to be your wife . "" At these words Levin's face suddenly lighted up with a smile , a smile not far from tears of emotion . "" She says that ! "" cried Levin . "" I always said she was exquisite , your wife . There , that 's enough , enough said about it , "" he said , getting up from his seat . "" All right , but do sit down . "" But Levin could not sit down . He walked with his firm tread twice up and down the little cage of a room , blinked his eyelids that his tears might not fall , and only then sat down to the table . "" You must understand , "" said he , "" it 's not love . I 've been in love , but it 's not that . It 's not my feeling , but a sort of force outside me has taken possession of me . I went away , you see , because I made up my mind that it could never be , you understand , as a happiness that does not come on earth ; but I 've struggled with myself , I see there 's no living without it . And it must be settled . "" "" What did you go away for ? "" "" Ah , stop a minute ! Ah , the thoughts that come crowding on one ! The questions one must ask oneself ! Listen . You ca n ' t imagine what you 've done for me by what you said . I 'm so happy that I 've become positively hateful ; I 've forgotten everything . I heard today that my brother Nikolay ... you know , he 's here ... I had even forgotten him . It seems to me that he 's happy too . It 's a sort of madness . But one thing 's awful .... Here , you 've been married , you know the feeling ... it 's awful that we – old – with a past ... not of love , but of sins ... are brought all at once so near to a creature pure and innocent ; it 's loathsome , and that 's why one ca n ' t help feeling oneself unworthy . "" "" Oh , well , you 've not many sins on your conscience . "" "" Alas ! all the same , "" said Levin , "" when with loathing I go over my life , I shudder and curse and bitterly regret it .... Yes . "" "" What would you have ? The world 's made so , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch . "" The one comfort is like that prayer , which I always liked : ' Forgive me not according to my unworthiness , but according to Thy lovingkindness . ' That 's the only way she can forgive me . """	Prose/Lyrical
1108	"In certain sports , such as football , field hockey , ice hockey , handball , rugby union , lacrosse and rugby league , winger is a position . It refers to positions on the extreme left and right sides of the pitch ( the "" wings "" ) . In American football and Canadian football , the analogous position is the wide receiver . Wingers often try to use pace to exploit extra space available on the flanks that can be made available by their team-mates dominating the centre ground . They must be wary however of not crossing the touchline and going out of play . In sports where the main method of scoring involves attacking a small goal ( by whatever name ) in the centre of the field , a common tactic is to cross the ball to a central team-mate . Contents In football , a winger is an attacking midfielder in a wide position . Wingers are usually players of great pace or dribbling ability so as to provide cut-backs or crosses from which strikers can score . Their main function is to support attack from the wings . Wingers do lots of high-speed running from defence to attack . In Australian rules football , the wingers or wingmen require considerable pace and stamina , as they run up and down the ground linking play between defence and attack and are normally highly skilled in kicking . "" Winger "" , in ice hockey , is a forward position of a player whose primary zone of play on the ice is along the outer playing area . They typically work by flanking the centre forward . Originally the name was given to forward players who went up and down the sides of the rink . Nowadays , there are different types of wing men in the game – out-and-out goal scorers , checkers who disrupt the opponents and forwards who work along the boards and in the corners . This position is typically just called "" Wing "" , often preceded by the side on which the player normally skates ( Left Wing or Right Wing ) . In Handball are two wing positions : left wing and right wing . In a typical team , these positions are occupied by fast and relatively small players . One of their main jobs in a game are fast attacks . Wingers or wings play on either the extreme left or the extreme right . They are usually the fastest players on the field and score the most tries . Wingers often fall back with the fullback to take kicks from the opposition ."	Information/Explanation
676	Scottish Tourist Board Three Stars Guest House AA four Diamonds Arden Guest House has 8 rooms all with en-suite private facilities and Arden House can accommodate up to 24 persons which makes it ideal for larger parties . The showers in all our rooms are mains-power showers . All rooms have cable television with free Sky Sports and free Sky Movies . All our rooms have tea and coffee making facilities . Our Guest House has 2 family rooms , 3 double rooms and 3 twin rooms . We offer a traditional Scottish breakfast which includes : eggs , bacon , sausage , mushrooms , tomatoes , baked beans , hash browns and potato scone , fruit juice and toast . Alternatively , our continental breakfast is vegetarian and includes : a choice of cereals including muesli , fruit and yoghurt with tea or coffee , with your choice of cappucino or espresso . Hot chocolate is also available . Prices from £ 20 per person / night ( includes full breakfast )	Promotion
464	"9-11 July 2004 The hopes of a nation's Formula One fans rest largely on Lucky Strike B. A. R Honda's shoulders this weekend as the team prepares to do battle in its home race at Silverstone . The race team hot-footed its way back from Magny-Cours to B. A. R's Northamptonshire base on Sunday night , ready to put all their efforts into the British Grand Prix , which takes place quite literally on the team's own doorstep . Every team and driver wants to win their home event and B. A. R Honda and lead driver Jenson Button are no exception . After an excellent first half of the season , in which he has brought home six trophies in ten races , Jenson's sights are firmly set on that elusive maiden win for himself and the team . There could be no better venue than Silverstone to take the victory spoils , where his legions of British fans will be out in force and practically the entire B. A. R workforce will take over a grandstand for the weekend to will both drivers to glory on home asphalt . Round 11 of the Formula One World Championship is the last of three gruelling back-to-back races in the 2004 calendar , falling just one week after a disappointing French Grand Prix for the team . The problems , which afflicted both Jenson and Takuma last weekend , are the subject of the most rigorous investigations and the team will leave no stone unturned to ensure reliability is not an issue this Sunday . The team consolidated its third place position in the Constructors' standings last weekend but lost all of the ground it had gained on Renault as a result of Takuma's retirement and the anti-stall trigger , which cost Jenson precious time and a potential podium in his final pitstop . Jenson geared up for his Silverstone challenge when he raced into London's Regent Street on Tuesday 6 July . Over 100,000 spectators got a rare opportunity to see Jenson and his B. A. R Honda race car at close quarters , albeit at a rather more sedate pace than the 300km / h plus speeds he will be unleashing next Sunday . Jenson Button on the British Grand Prix "" After the disappointment of Magny-Cours , where we had a good chance of a podium , it feels great to be back in Britain to prepare for our home race . We targeted our first win for around this point in the season and it goes without saying that it would be fantastic to achieve that this weekend . This race is special for so many reasons . I love racing here and will never forget my debut F1 race here four years ago when I passed Michael Schumacher on the first lap . He might have been on a different fuel load but that was a fantastic moment nonetheless . It 's incredibly moving to race in front of my home crowd , especially with the sea of Union Jacks down the start-finish straight ! Most importantly , this is a weekend when the whole team get to share in our achievements and I just hope that we have something special to celebrate with them on Sunday night . "" Takuma Sato on the British Grand Prix "" Obviously Suzuka is my own home race , but I now live in England and this is my second home . I want to do well in front of the team and its many British fans and I hope I have the car to deliver a good result next Sunday . The British Grand Prix is one of the most exciting in my opinion . I also have very fond memories of the circuit from my Junior and Formula 3 days , so I am always very excited to head back there . It 's a shame that we had a slightly disappointing result at the French Grand Prix , however I am still confident from our performance in Indy . Historically , Silverstone is always an exciting race , especially with the unpredictable weather , so it could be very exciting . "" Anthony Davidson , B. A. R Honda's British Third Driver "" We have been very quick at Silverstone in general testing this year and both Jenson and Taku topped the timesheets on the days when they ran here . From a personal perspective , this will be the best Friday I 've ever had in terms of recognition and it will be great to get a share of the limelight with the British fans . I live just a few miles from Silverstone so I am very well acquainted with the changeable weather conditions we get here and which always make the British Grand Prix even more exciting ! As always , I 'll be doing my bit to get the team off to a good start on Friday . "" David Richards , Team Principal "" There is a great deal of expectation on our shoulders as we head into our home race this weekend . Silverstone is in our own backyard with Jenson currently the top British driver , I would anticipate that a large proportion of British F1 fans will be pinning their hopes on us this Sunday . Obviously it would be wonderful to achieve our maiden victory at our home track , but whatever the outcome , it will be a very special weekend . Very few of our staff ever get to go to a race and yet each and every one of them has been integral to the transformation in our performance this season . We have created plenty of opportunities for them to be part of the action this weekend and to see the benefits of their hard work at close quarters . The Regent Street event is a fantastic curtain-raiser for the Grand Prix and the opportunity to bring the fans even closer to the sport and their heroes . However , in the heat of the preparations , we can not overlook the fact that the French Grand Prix was a disappointment for us and we will be doing everything possible in the days ahead to ensure we are fully on top of any factors which have compromised us . All in all , it will be a very exciting weekend ahead ! "" Geoffrey Willis , Technical Director "" In Magny-Cours we did not achieve either our full performance potential or reliability and both areas need addressing in the short run up to the British Grand Prix and beyond . The Silverstone circuit requires a harder tyre solution than normal to cope with the very high speed corners and loadings they induce . The harder compounds reduce degradation but this has to be balanced against losing too much grip for the slower speed areas at Club and in the complex . The nature of the corners also requires a car that can be stable under high speed changes of direction without generating lower speed understeer or poor traction . We were able to use the Silverstone test in early June to work on the tyre choices with Michelin and investigate set-up solutions suited to the track . So going into our home race we are confident of fighting for a good result . "" Shuhei Nakamoto , Engineering Director , Honda Racing Development "" We had a tough weekend in France and we will of course be working very hard to get back into our podium scoring form . The British Grand Prix is a very important race for us - we always enjoy competing on home ground and it 'll be great to race in front of the local fans and many of our staff . "" The Circuit Race distance - 60 laps . 191.644 miles ( 308 . 355km ) Circuit length - 3.195 miles ( 5 . 141 km ) Race Start - 13.00 GMT This historic circuit , a former airfield , is one of the few remaining venues where Formula One cars can really be unleashed and as a result it is still one of the highlights of the calendar - amply demonstrated by last year's incredible race . The circuit itself is a thrilling drive , although there is some criticism over a lack of passing places . However , overtaking moves are possible into Vale and Abbey , although cars tend to lose downforce following each other closely through the preceding fast corners . The entry to Becketts is now the quickest corner on the track , a 290 km / h bend , while the slowest section is the 80 km / h , Vale left-hander that leads directly into Club corner . Silverstone has been heavily censured in the past because of the traffic problems that have arisen on the small access roads around the circuit . However , the new road system introduced just in time for the 2002 race seems to have rectified most of these issues once and for all . Honda F1 Highlights - Honda-powered drivers enjoyed four consecutive triumphs at the British Grand Prix in the late 1980s - Nigel Mansell taking victory in 1986 and 1987 , Ayrton Senna in 1988 and Alain Prost in 1989 . - In 1987 Honda savoured its most successful ever Grand Prix at Silverstone when cars powered by its engines came home in first , second , third and fourth positions - Nigel Mansell and Nelson Piquet in Williams Hondas followed by Ayrton Senna and Satoru Nakajima in Lotus Hondas ."	News
1048	"In this Agreement the following expressions have the following meanings : - "" Racecourse "" - Sedgefield Steeplechase Co. ( 1927 ) Limited . The owner of the event on the Scheduled Date . "" Sponsor "" - the company name or contact name as more fully described in the Details overleaf who wishes to provide sponsorship of the Race Time on the Scheduled Date . "" Scheduled Date "" - the dates of the race meetings as more fully described in the Schedule overleaf ; and of any other race meeting notified to the Sponsor by the Racecourse as being a scheduled race meeting ; "" Race Time "" - the detailed race time on the Scheduled Date at time of print as more fully described in the Schedule overleaf ; and "" Additions "" - the amounts listed from the Additions overleaf exclusive of VAT payable to the Racecourse . In this Agreement : - any gender includes any other gender ; headings shall not affect interpretation ; a reference to any of the parties includes , where appropriate , persons deriving title under it ; and the Schedule forms part of this Agreement and the expression "" this Agreement "" includes the Schedule .. GRANT OF SPONSORSHIP In consideration of payment of the Sponsorship Fee and the Additions ( if any ) by the Sponsor the Racecourse agrees to grant the Sponsor an exclusive sponsorship right to use the Race Time on the Scheduled Date upon the following terms and conditions . PAYMENT The Sponsor agrees to pay to the Racecourse : - the Sponsorship Fee plus VAT in accordance with the payment terms set out overleaf ; and the Additions ( if any ) plus VAT within 30 days of the date of the Racecourse's invoice ; and interest at the rate of 2 % per year over the base lending rate from time to time of Allied Irish Bank ( GB ) on any money due under this Agreement which remains unpaid from the date when such money first becomes due and payable until such time as it shall be paid . THE SPONSORS OBLIGATIONS The Sponsor undertakes with the Racecourse : - not to assign the benefit of this Agreement or deal with it in any way in whole or in part ; not to grant a sub-sponsorship agreement to a third party without the prior written approval of the Racecourse ( which shall not be unreasonably withheld ) ; to ensure that the Sponsor and the Sponsor's guests are dressed in a fitting manner . The Sponsor accepts that the Racecourse has the right to refuse access to the Sponsor and any such guest not deemed by the Racecourse to be appropriately dressed ; to ensure that each of the Sponsor's guests are given the appropriate Racecourse admission passes as provided by the Racecourse and will produce them upon any request made by an official Racecourse steward . The Licensee accepts that any of his or its guests unable to show the correct pass will not be admitted to the Racecourse ; not to do or permit any act or thing which would or might constitute a breach of any statutory requirement affecting the Racecourse or which would or might vitiate in whole or in part any insurance effected in respect of the Racecourse from time to time ; to observe the Racecourse Regulations and the rules of any relevant authority as are made and notified . the sponsor has the right to renew this agreement on similar terms , for a further year , or such other period as shall be agreed between the Racecourse and the Sponsor , such right to be exercised by the Sponsor at any time prior to three months prior to the following annual Scheduled date . THE RACECOURSES OBLIGATIONS The Racecourse undertakes with the Sponsor : - to ensure the race title will appear in publicised literature within the control of the racecourse . to ensure a winning memento is provided to the winning owner . Should the Sponsor wish to provide a trophy or memento of greater value , this should be at the Sponsors expense . to provide temporary banner sites on the racecourse site . The position of the banner site will be decided by the Racecourse . Banner production charges will be at the expenses of the Sponsor . to provide the facility to brand the presentation podium . Any such branding will be supplied by the sponsor at their expense . to provide a black and white advertisement facility for a full page in the racecard on the Scheduled Date , with an option to design and print the racecard cover on the day should it be available . The sponsor will provide the artwork and cover cost at their expense . to provide space for a trade stand or other promotional vehicle . Any such opportunity will be agreed in full prior to the event by the Racecourse in accordance with the payment terms set out in 3.2 . REFUNDS AND FORCE MAJEURE If , for any reason , a race meeting on a Scheduled Date is cancelled the racecourse and sponsor may agree a suitable alternative Race Time at the same value of sponsorship , if this is not possible a full refund will be available . The Racecourse shall not be liable for any failure to perform its obligations under this Agreement where such failure results from circumstances beyond the Racecourse's reasonable control and the Racecourse shall not be liable to the Sponsor for any loss of profit , financial loss , depletion of goodwill or any indirect loss , damage , costs or expenses whatsoever which arise as a result of any cancellation or re-scheduling of any race meeting which was previously to be held on a Scheduled Date . TERMINATION The Racecourse shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement forthwith on notice to the Sponsor in the event that any monies due and payable under this Agreement ( whether demanded or not ) have not been paid on the due date for payment . Either party shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement forthwith on notice in the event that the other party : - substantially fails to perform and observe all or any of the obligations on its part contained in this Agreement ; enters into liquidation whether compulsory or voluntary ( other than for the purposes of an amalgamation or re - construction of a solvent company ) or has a receiver or administrative receiver appointed or enters into any arrangement for the benefit of its creditors . Any termination of this Agreement shall be without prejudice to any rights or remedies that may have accrued to either party . NOTICES Any notices given by either party pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be sufficiently served if delivered by hand or sent by recorded delivery or first class pre-paid post to the other at its registered office or last known address . SEVERANCE If any provision of this Agreement is found by any competent authority to be invalid unenforceable or unreasonable the remainder shall not be affected . RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES This Agreement does not create , confer or purport to confer any benefit or right enforceable by any person not a party to it except that a person who is a permitted successor to or assignee of the rights of the party to this Agreement is deemed to be a party to this Agreement . GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION This Agreement is subject to the laws of England and Wales and the parties agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales . ENTIRE AGREEMENT The terms of this Agreement are the full terms agreed between the parties and the Sponsor has not been induced to enter into this Agreement by any representation or warranty ( written or oral ) made by or on behalf of the Racecourse . END Back to Terms & Conditions"	Legal
55	"2 THE ANTECHAMBER OF M. DE TREVILLE M. de Troisville , as his family was still called in Gascony , or M. de Treville , as he has ended by styling himself in Paris , had really commenced life as d ' Artagnan now did ; that is to say , without a sou in his pocket , but with a fund of audacity , shrewdness , and intelligence which makes the poorest Gascon gentleman often derive more in his hope from the paternal inheritance than the richest Perigordian or Berrichan gentleman derives in reality from his . His insolent bravery , his still more insolent success at a time when blows poured down like hail , had borne him to the top of that difficult ladder called Court Favor , which he had climbed four steps at a time . He was the friend of the king , who honored highly , as everyone knows , the memory of his father , Henry IV . The father of M. de Treville had served him so faithfully in his wars against the league that in default of money--a thing to which the Bearnais was accustomed all his life , and who constantly paid his debts with that of which he never stood in need of borrowing , that is to say , with ready wit--in default of money , we repeat , he authorized him , after the reduction of Paris , to assume for his arms a golden lion passant upon gules , with the motto FIDELIS ET FORTIS . This was a great matter in the way of honor , but very little in the way of wealth ; so that when the illustrious companion of the great Henry died , the only inheritance he was able to leave his son was his sword and his motto . Thanks to this double gift and the spotless name that accompanied it , M. de Treville was admitted into the household of the young prince where he made such good use of his sword , and was so faithful to his motto , that Louis XIII , one of the good blades of his kingdom , was accustomed to say that if he had a friend who was about to fight , he would advise him to choose as a second , himself first , and Treville next--or even , perhaps , before himself . Thus Louis XIII had a real liking for Treville--a royal liking , a self-interested liking , it is true , but still a liking . At that unhappy period it was an important consideration to be surrounded by such men as Treville . Many might take for their device the epithet STRONG , which formed the second part of his motto , but very few gentlemen could lay claim to the FAITHFUL , which constituted the first . Treville was one of these latter . His was one of those rare organizations , endowed with an obedient intelligence like that of the dog ; with a blind valor , a quick eye , and a prompt hand ; to whom sight appeared only to be given to see if the king were dissatisfied with anyone , and the hand to strike this displeasing personage , whether a Besme , a Maurevers , a Poltiot de Mere , or a Vitry . In short , up to this period nothing had been wanting to Treville but opportunity ; but he was ever on the watch for it , and he faithfully promised himself that he would not fail to seize it by its three hairs whenever it came within reach of his hand . At last Louis XIII made Treville the captain of his Musketeers , who were to Louis XIII in devotedness , or rather in fanaticism , what his Ordinaries had been to Henry III , and his Scotch Guard to Louis XI . On his part , the cardinal was not behind the king in this respect . When he saw the formidable and chosen body with which Louis XIII had surrounded himself , this second , or rather this first king of France , became desirous that he , too , should have his guard . He had his Musketeers therefore , as Louis XIII had his , and these two powerful rivals vied with each other in procuring , not only from all the provinces of France , but even from all foreign states , the most celebrated swordsmen . It was not uncommon for Richelieu and Louis XIII to dispute over their evening game of chess upon the merits of their servants . Each boasted the bearing and the courage of his own people . While exclaiming loudly against duels and brawls , they excited them secretly to quarrel , deriving an immoderate satisfaction or genuine regret from the success or defeat of their own combatants . We learn this from the memoirs of a man who was concerned in some few of these defeats and in many of these victories . Treville had grasped the weak side of his master ; and it was to this address that he owed the long and constant favor of a king who has not left the reputation behind him of being very faithful in his friendships . He paraded his Musketeers before the Cardinal Armand Duplessis with an insolent air which made the gray moustache of his Eminence curl with ire . Treville understood admirably the war method of that period , in which he who could not live at the expense of the enemy must live at the expense of his compatriots . His soldiers formed a legion of devil-may-care fellows , perfectly undisciplined toward all but himself . Loose , half-drunk , imposing , the king's Musketeers , or rather M. de Treville's , spread themselves about in the cabarets , in the public walks , and the public sports , shouting , twisting their mustaches , clanking their swords , and taking great pleasure in annoying the Guards of the cardinal whenever they could fall in with them ; then drawing in the open streets , as if it were the best of all possible sports ; sometimes killed , but sure in that case to be both wept and avenged ; often killing others , but then certain of not rotting in prison , M. de Treville being there to claim them . Thus M. de Treville was praised to the highest note by these men , who adored him , and who , ruffians as they were , trembled before him like scholars before their master , obedient to his least word , and ready to sacrifice themselves to wash out the smallest insult . M. de Treville employed this powerful weapon for the king , in the first place , and the friends of the king--and then for himself and his own friends . For the rest , in the memoirs of this period , which has left so many memoirs , one does not find this worthy gentleman blamed even by his enemies ; and he had many such among men of the pen as well as among men of the sword . In no instance , let us say , was this worthy gentleman accused of deriving personal advantage from the cooperation of his minions . Endowed with a rare genius for intrigue which rendered him the equal of the ablest intriguers , he remained an honest man . Still further , in spite of sword thrusts which weaken , and painful exercises which fatigue , he had become one of the most gallant frequenters of revels , one of the most insinuating lady's men , one of the softest whisperers of interesting nothings of his day ; the BONNES FORTUNES of de Treville were talked of as those of M. de Bassompierre had been talked of twenty years before , and that was not saying a little . The captain of the Musketeers was therefore admired , feared , and loved ; and this constitutes the zenith of human fortune . Louis XIV absorbed all the smaller stars of his court in his own vast radiance ; but his father , a sun PLURIBUS IMPAR , left his personal splendor to each of his favorites , his individual value to each of his courtiers . In addition to the leeves of the king and the cardinal , there might be reckoned in Paris at that time more than two hundred smaller but still noteworthy leeves . Among these two hundred leeves , that of Treville was one of the most sought . The court of his hotel , situated in the Rue du Vieux-Colombier , resembled a camp from by six o ' clock in the morning in summer and eight o ' clock in winter . From fifty to sixty Musketeers , who appeared to replace one another in order always to present an imposing number , paraded constantly , armed to the teeth and ready for anything . On one of those immense staircases , upon whose space modern civilization would build a whole house , ascended and descended the office seekers of Paris , who ran after any sort of favor--gentlemen from the provinces anxious to be enrolled , and servants in all sorts of liveries , bringing and carrying messages between their masters and M. de Treville . In the antechamber , upon long circular benches , reposed the elect ; that is to say , those who were called . In this apartment a continued buzzing prevailed from morning till night , while M. de Treville , in his office contiguous to this antechamber , received visits , listened to complaints , gave his orders , and like the king in his balcony at the Louvre , had only to place himself at the window to review both his men and arms . The day on which d ' Artagnan presented himself the assemblage was imposing , particularly for a provincial just arriving from his province . It is true that this provincial was a Gascon ; and that , particularly at this period , the compatriots of d ' Artagnan had the reputation of not being easily intimidated . When he had once passed the massive door covered with long square-headed nails , he fell into the midst of a troop of swordsmen , who crossed one another in their passage , calling out , quarreling , and playing tricks one with another . In order to make one's way amid these turbulent and conflicting waves , it was necessary to be an officer , a great noble , or a pretty woman . It was , then , into the midst of this tumult and disorder that our young man advanced with a beating heat , ranging his long rapier up his lanky leg , and keeping one hand on the edge of his cap , with that half-smile of the embarrassed a provincial who wishes to put on a good face . When he had passed one group he began to breathe more freely ; but he could not help observing that they turned round to look at him , and for the first time in his life d ' Artagnan , who had till that day entertained a very good opinion of himself , felt ridiculous . Arrived at the staircase , it was still worse . There were four Musketeers on the bottom steps , amusing themselves with the following exercise , while ten or twelve of their comrades waited upon the landing place to take their turn in the sport . One of them , stationed upon the top stair , naked sword in hand , prevented , or at least endeavored to prevent , the three others from ascending . These three others fenced against him with their agile swords . D ' Artagnan at first took these weapons for foils , and believed them to be buttoned ; but he soon perceived by certain scratches that every weapon was pointed and sharpened , and that at each of these scratches not only the spectators , but even the actors themselves , laughed like so many madmen . He who at the moment occupied the upper step kept his adversaries marvelously in check . A circle was formed around them . The conditions required that at every hit the man touched should quit the game , yielding his turn for the benefit of the adversary who had hit him . In five minutes three were slightly wounded , one on the hand , another on the ear , by the defender of the stair , who himself remained intact--a piece of skill which was worth to him , according to the rules agreed upon , three turns of favor . However difficult it might be , or rather as he pretended it was , to astonish our young traveler , this pastime really astonished him . He had seen in his province--that land in which heads become so easily heated--a few of the preliminaries of duels ; but the daring of these four fencers appeared to him the strongest he had ever heard of even in Gascony . He believed himself transported into that famous country of giants into which Gulliver afterward went and was so frightened ; and yet he had not gained the goal , for there were still the landing place and the antechamber . On the landing they were no longer fighting , but amused themselves with stories about women , and in the antechamber , with stories about the court . On the landing d ' Artagnan blushed ; in the antechamber he trembled . His warm and fickle imagination , which in Gascony had rendered formidable to young chambermaids , and even sometimes their mistresses , had never dreamed , even in moments of delirium , of half the amorous wonders or a quarter of the feats of gallantry which were here set forth in connection with names the best known and with details the least concealed . But if his morals were shocked on the landing , his respect for the cardinal was scandalized in the antechamber . There , to his great astonishment , d ' Artagnan heard the policy which made all Europe tremble criticized aloud and openly , as well as the private life of the cardinal , which so many great nobles had been punished for trying to pry into . That great man who was so revered by d ' Artagnan the elder served as an object of ridicule to the Musketeers of Treville , who cracked their jokes upon his bandy legs and his crooked back . Some sang ballads about Mme . d ' Aguillon , his mistress , and Mme . Cambalet , his niece ; while others formed parties and plans to annoy the pages and guards of the cardinal duke--all things which appeared to d ' Artagnan monstrous impossibilities . Nevertheless , when the name of the king was now and then uttered unthinkingly amid all these cardinal jests , a sort of gag seemed to close for a moment on all these jeering mouths . They looked hesitatingly around them , and appeared to doubt the thickness of the partition between them and the office of M. de Treville ; but a fresh allusion soon brought back the conversation to his Eminence , and then the laughter recovered its loudness and the light was not withheld from any of his actions . "" Certes , these fellows will all either be imprisoned or hanged , "" thought the terrified d ' Artagnan , "" and I , no doubt , with them ; for from the moment I have either listened to or heard them , I shall be held as an accomplice . What would my good father say , who so strongly pointed out to me the respect due to the cardinal , if he knew I was in the society of such pagans ? "" We have no need , therefore , to say that d ' Artagnan dared not join in the conversation , only he looked with all his eyes and listened with all his ears , stretching his five senses so as to lose nothing ; and despite his confidence on the paternal admonitions , he felt himself carried by his tastes and led by his instincts to praise rather than to blame the unheard-of things which were taking place . Although he was a perfect stranger in the court of M. de Treville's courtiers , and this his first appearance in that place , he was at length noticed , and somebody came and asked him what he wanted . At this demand d ' Artagnan gave his name very modestly , emphasized the title of compatriot , and begged the servant who had put the question to him to request a moment's audience of M. de Treville--a request which the other , with an air of protection , promised to transmit in due season . D ' Artagnan , a little recovered from his first surprise , had now leisure to study costumes and physiognomy . The center of the most animated group was a Musketeer of great height and haughty countenance , dressed in a costume so peculiar as to attract general attention . He did not wear the uniform cloak--which was not obligatory at that epoch of less liberty but more independence--but a cerulean-blue doublet , a little faded and worn , and over this a magnificent baldric , worked in gold , which shone like water ripples in the sun . A long cloak of crimson velvet fell in graceful folds from his shoulders , disclosing in front the splendid baldric , from which was suspended a gigantic rapier . This Musketeer had just come off guard , complained of having a cold , and coughed from time to time affectedly . It was for this reason , as he said to those around him , that he had put on his cloak ; and while he spoke with a lofty air and twisted his mustache disdainfully , all admired his embroidered baldric , and d ' Artagnan more than anyone . "" What would you have ? "" said the Musketeer . "" This fashion is coming in . It is a folly , I admit , but still it is the fashion . Besides , one must lay out one's inheritance somehow . "" "" Ah , Porthos ! "" cried one of his companions , "" do n't try to make us believe you obtained that baldric by paternal generosity . It was given to you by that veiled lady I met you with the other Sunday , near the gate St. Honor . "" "" No , upon honor and by the faith of a gentleman , I bought it with the contents of my own purse , "" answered he whom they designated by the name Porthos . "" Yes ; about in the same manner , "" said another Musketeer , "" that I bought this new purse with what my mistress put into the old one . "" "" It 's true , though , "" said Porthos ; "" and the proof is that I paid twelve pistoles for it . "" The wonder was increased , though the doubt continued to exist . "" Is it not true , Aramis ? "" said Porthos , turning toward another Musketeer . This other Musketeer formed a perfect contrast to his interrogator , who had just designated him by the name of Aramis . He was a stout man , of about two - or three-and-twenty , with an open , ingenuous countenance , a black , mild eye , and cheeks rosy and downy as an autumn peach . His delicate mustache marked a perfectly straight line upon his upper lip ; he appeared to dread to lower his hands lest their veins should swell , and he pinched the tips of his ears from time to time to preserve their delicate pink transparency . Habitually he spoke little and slowly , bowed frequently , laughed without noise , showing his teeth , which were fine and of which , as the rest of his person , he appeared to take great care . He answered the appeal of his friend by an affirmative nod of the head . This affirmation appeared to dispel all doubts with regard to the baldric . They continued to admire it , but said no more about it ; and with a rapid change of thought , the conversation passed suddenly to another subject . "" What do you think of the story Chalais's esquire relates ? "" asked another Musketeer , without addressing anyone in particular , but on the contrary speaking to everybody . "" And what does he say ? "" asked Porthos , in a self-sufficient tone . "" He relates that he met at Brussels Rochefort , the AME DAMNEE of the cardinal disguised as a Capuchin , and that this cursed Rochefort , thanks to his disguise , had tricked Monsieur de Laigues , like a ninny as he is . "" "" A ninny , indeed ! "" said Porthos ; "" but is the matter certain ? "" "" I had it from Aramis , "" replied the Musketeer . "" Indeed ? "" "" Why , you knew it , Porthos , "" said Aramis . "" I told you of it yesterday . Let us say no more about it . "" "" Say no more about it ? That 's YOUR opinion ! "" replied Porthos . "" Say no more about it ! PESTE ! You come to your conclusions quickly . What ! The cardinal sets a spy upon a gentleman , has his letters stolen from him by means of a traitor , a brigand , a rascal-has , with the help of this spy and thanks to this correspondence , Chalais's throat cut , under the stupid pretext that he wanted to kill the king and marry Monsieur to the queen ! Nobody knew a word of this enigma . You unraveled it yesterday to the great satisfaction of all ; and while we are still gaping with wonder at the news , you come and tell us today , ' Let us say no more about it . ' "" "" Well , then , let us talk about it , since you desire it , "" replied Aramis , patiently . "" This Rochefort , "" cried Porthos , "" if I were the esquire of poor Chalais , should pass a minute or two very uncomfortably with me . "" "" And you--you would pass rather a sad quarter-hour with the Red Duke , "" replied Aramis . "" Oh , the Red Duke ! Bravo ! Bravo ! The Red Duke ! "" cried Porthos , clapping his hands and nodding his head . "" The Red Duke is capital . I 'll circulate that saying , be assured , my dear fellow . Who says this Aramis is not a wit ? What a misfortune it is you did not follow your first vocation ; what a delicious abbe you would have made ! "" "" Oh , it 's only a temporary postponement , "" replied Aramis ; "" I shall be one someday . You very well know , Porthos , that I continue to study theology for that purpose . "" "" He will be one , as he says , "" cried Porthos ; "" he will be one , sooner or later . "" "" Sooner . "" said Aramis . "" He only waits for one thing to determine him to resume his cassock , which hangs behind his uniform , "" said another Musketeer . "" What is he waiting for ? "" asked another . "" Only till the queen has given an heir to the crown of France . "" "" No jesting upon that subject , gentlemen , "" said Porthos ; "" thank God the queen is still of an age to give one ! "" "" They say that Monsieur de Buckingham is in France , "" replied Aramis , with a significant smile which gave to this sentence , apparently so simple , a tolerably scandalous meaning . "" Aramis , my good friend , this time you are wrong , "" interrupted Porthos . "" Your wit is always leading you beyond bounds ; if Monsieur de Treville heard you , you would repent of speaking thus . "" "" Are you going to give me a lesson , Porthos ? "" cried Aramis , from whose usually mild eye a flash passed like lightning . "" My dear fellow , be a Musketeer or an abbe . Be one or the other , but not both , "" replied Porthos . "" You know what Athos told you the other day ; you eat at everybody's mess . Ah , do n't be angry , I beg of you , that would be useless ; you know what is agreed upon between you , Athos and me . You go to Madame d ' Aguillon's , and you pay your court to her ; you go to Madame de Bois-Tracy's , the cousin of Madame de Chevreuse , and you pass for being far advanced in the good graces of that lady . Oh , good Lord ! Do n't trouble yourself to reveal your good luck ; no one asks for your secret-all the world knows your discretion . But since you possess that virtue , why the devil do n't you make use of it with respect to her Majesty ? Let whoever likes talk of the king and the cardinal , and how he likes ; but the queen is sacred , and if anyone speaks of her , let it be respectfully . "" "" Porthos , you are as vain as Narcissus ; I plainly tell you so , "" replied Aramis . "" You know I hate moralizing , except when it is done by Athos . As to you , good sir , you wear too magnificent a baldric to be strong on that head . I will be an abbe if it suits me . In the meanwhile I am a Musketeer ; in that quality I say what I please , and at this moment it pleases me to say that you weary me . "" "" Aramis ! "" "" Porthos ! "" "" Gentlemen ! Gentlemen ! "" cried the surrounding group . "" Monsieur de Treville awaits Monsieur d ' Artagnan , "" cried a servant , throwing open the door of the cabinet . At this announcement , during which the door remained open , everyone became mute , and amid the general silence the young man crossed part of the length of the antechamber , and entered the apartment of the captain of the Musketeers , congratulating himself with all his heart at having so narrowly escaped the end of this strange quarrel ."	Prose/Lyrical
73	"Part 7 Chapter 2 ON Sunday Étienne escaped from the settlement at nightfall . A very clear sky , sprinkled with stars , lit up the earth with the blue haze of twilight . He went down towards the canal , and followed the bank slowly , in the direction of Marchiennes . It was his favourite walk , a grass-covered path two leagues long , passing straight beside this geometrical water-way , which unrolled itself like an endless ingot of molten silver . He never met any one there . But on this day he was vexed to see a man come up to him . Beneath the pale starlight , the two solitary walkers only recognized each other when they were face to face . "" What ! is it you ? "" said Étienne . Souvarine nodded his head without replying . For a moment they remained motionless , then side by side they set out towards Marchiennes . Each of them seemed to be continuing his own reflections , as though they were far away from each other . "" Have you seen in the paper about Pluchart's success at Paris ? "" asked Étienne , at length . "" After that meeting at Belleville , they waited for him on the pavement , and gave him an ovation . Oh ! he 's afloat now , in spite of his sore throat . He can do what he likes in the future . "" The engine-man shrugged his shoulders . He felt contempt for fine talkers , fellows who go into politics as one goes to the bar , to get an income out of phrases . Étienne was now studying Darwin . He had read fragments , summarized and popularized in a five-sou volume ; and out of this ill-understood reading he had gained for himself a revolutionary idea of the struggle for existence , the lean eating the fat , the strong people devouring the pallid middle class . But Souvarine furiously attacked the stupidity of the Socialists who accept Darwin , that apostle of scientific inequality , whose famous selection was only good for aristocratic philosophers . His mate persisted , however , wishing to reason out the matter , and expressing his doubts by an hypothesis : supposing the old society were no longer to exist , swept away to the crumbs ; well , was it not to be feared that the new world would grow up again , slowly spoilt by the same injustices , some sick and others flourishing , some more skilful and intelligent , fattening on everything , and others imbecile and lazy . becoming slaves again ? But before this vision of eternal wretchedness , the engine-man shouted out fiercely that if justice was not possible with man , then man must disappear . For every rotten society there must be a massacre , until the last creature was exterminated . And there was silence again . For a long time , with sunken head , Souvarine walked over the short grass , so absorbed that he kept to the extreme edge , by the water , with the quiet certainty of a sleep-walker on a roof . Then he shuddered causelessly , as though he had stumbled against a shadow . His eyes lifted and his face was very pale ; he said softly to his companion : "" Did I ever tell you how she died ? "" "" Whom do you mean ? "" "" My woman , over there , in Russia . "" Étienne made a vague gesture , astonished at the tremor in his voice and at the sudden desire for confidence in this lad , who was usually so impassive in his stoical detachment from others and from himself . He only knew that the woman was his mistress , and that she had been hanged at Moscow . "" The affair had n ' t gone off , "" Souvarine said , with eyes still vacantly following the white stream of the canal between the bluish colonnades of tall trees . "" We had been a fortnight at the bottom of a hole undermining the railway , and it was not the imperial train that was blown up , it was a passenger train . Then they arrested Annutchka . She brought us bread every evening , disguised as a peasant woman . She lit the fuse , too , because a man might have attracted attention . I followed the trial , hidden in the crowd , for six days . "" His voice became thick , and he coughed as though he were choking . "" Twice I wanted to cry out , and to rush over the people's heads to join her . But what was the good ? One man less would be one soldier less ; and I could see that she was telling me not to come , when her large eyes met mine . "" He coughed again . "" On the last day in the square I was there . It was raining ; they stupidly lost their heads , put out by the falling rain . It took twenty minutes to hang the other four ; the cord broke , they could not finish the fourth . Annutchka was standing up waiting . She could not see me , she was looking for me in the crowd . I got on to a post and she saw me , and our eyes never turned from each other . When she was dead she was still looking at me . I waved my hat ; I came away . "" There was silence again . The white road of the canal unrolled to the far distance , and they both walked with the same quiet step as though each had fallen back into his isolation . At the horizon , the pale water seemed to open the sky with a little hole of light . "" It was our punishment , "" Souvarine went on roughly . "" We were guilty to love each other . Yes , it is well that she is dead ; heroes will be born from her blood , and I no longer have any cowardice at my heart . Ah ! nothing , neither parents , nor wife , nor friend ! Nothing to make my hand tremble on the day when I must take others' lives or give up my own . "" Étienne had stopped , shuddering in the cool night . He discussed no more , he simply said : "" We have gone far ; shall we go back ? "" They went back towards the Voreux slowly , and he added , after a few paces : "" Have you seen the new placards ? "" The Company had that morning put up some more large yellow posters . They were clearer and more conciliatory , and the Company undertook to take back the certificates of those miners who went down on the following day . Everything would be forgotten , and pardon was offered even to those who were most implicated . "" Yes , I 've seen , "" replied the engine-man . "" Well , what do you think of it ? "" "" I think that it 's all up . The flock will go down again . You are all too cowardly . "" Étienne feverishly excused his mates : a man may be brave , a mob which is dying of hunger has no strength . Step by step they were returning to the Voreux ; and before the black mass of the pit he continued swearing that he , at least , would never go down ; but he could forgive those who did . Then , as the rumour ran that the carpenters had not had time to repair the tubbing , he asked for information . Was it true ? Had the weight of the soil against the timber which formed the internal skirt of scaffolding to the shaft so pushed it in that the winding-cages rubbed as they went down for a length of over fifty metres ? Souvarine , who once more became uncommunicative , replied briefly . He had been working the day before , and the cage did , in fact , jar ; the engine-men had even had to double the speed to pass that spot . But all the bosses received any observations with the same irritating remark : it was coal they wanted ; that could be repaired later on . "" You see that is smashing up ! "" Étienne murmured . "" It will be a fine time ! "" With eyes vaguely fixed on the pit in the shadow , Souvarine quietly concluded : "" If it does smash up , the mates will know it , since you advise them to go down again . "" Nine o ' clock struck at the Montsou steeple ; and his companion having said that he was going to bed , he added , without putting out his hand : "" Well , good-bye . I 'm going away . "" "" What ! you 're going away ? "" "" Yes , I 've asked for my certificate back . I 'm going elsewhere . "" Étienne , stupefied and affected , looked at him . After walking for two hours he said that to him ! And in so calm a voice , while the mere announcement of this sudden separation made his own heart ache . They had got to know each other , they had toiled together ; that always makes one sad , the idea of not seeing a person again . "" You 're going away ! And where do you go ? "" "" Over there--I do n't know at all . "" "" But I shall see you again ? "" "" No , I think not . "" They were silent and remained for a moment facing each other without finding anything to say . "" Then good-bye . "" "" Good-bye . "" While Étienne ascended toward the settlement , Souvarine turned and again went along the canal bank ; and there , now alone , he continued to walk , with sunken head , so lost in the darkness that he seemed merely a moving shadow of the night . Now and then he stopped , he counted the hours that struck afar . When he heard midnight strike he left the bank and turned towards the Voreux . At that time the pit was empty , and he only met a sleepy-eyed captain . It was not until two o ' clock that they would begin to get up steam to resume work . First he went to take from a cupboard a jacket which he pretended to have forgotten . Various tools--a drill armed with its screw , a small but very strong saw , a hammer , and a chisel--were rolled up in this jacket . Then he left . But instead of going out through the shed he passed through the narrow corridor which led to the ladder passage . With his jacket under his arm he quietly went down without a lamp , measuring the depth by counting the ladders . He knew that the cage jarred at three hundred and seventy-four metres against the fifth row of the lower tubbing . When he had counted fifty-four ladders he put out his hand and was able to feel the swelling of the planking . It was there . Then , with the skill and coolness of a good workman who has been reflecting over his task for a long time , he set to work . He began by sawing a panel in the brattice so as to communicate with the winding-shaft . With the help of matches , quickly lighted and blown out , he was then able to ascertain the condition of the tubbing and of the recent repairs . Between Calais and Valenciennes the sinking of mine shafts was surrounded by immense difficulties on account of the masses of subterranean water in great sheets at the level of the lowest valleys . Only the construction of tubbings , frameworks jointed like the stays of a barrel , could keep Out the springs which flow in and isolate the shafts in the midst of the lakes , which with deep obscure waves beat against the walls . It had been necessary in sinking the Voreux to establish two tubbings : that of the upper level , in the shifting sands and white clays bordering the chalky stratum , and fissured in every part , swollen with water like a sponge ; then that of the lower level , immediately above the coal stratum , in a yellow sand as fine as flour , flowing with liquid fluidity ; it was here that the Torrent was to be found , that subterranean sea so dreaded in the coal pits of the Nord , a sea with its storms and its shipwrecks , an unknown and unfathomable sea , rolling its dark floods more than three hundred metres beneath the daylight . Usually the tubbings resisted the enormous pressure ; the only thing to be dreaded was the piling up of the neighbouring soil , shaken by the constant movement of the old galleries which were filling up . In this descent of the rocks lines of fracture were sometimes produced which slowly extended as far as the scaffolding , at last perforating it and pushing it into the shaft ; and there was the great danger of a landslip and a flood filling the pit with an avalanche of earth and a deluge of springs . Souvarine , sitting astride in the opening he had made , discovered a very serious defect in the fifth row of tubbing . The wood was bellied out from the framework ; several planks had even come out of their shoulder-pieces . Abundant filtrations , pichoux the miners call them , were jetting out of the joints through the tarred oakum with which they were caulked . The carpenters , pressed for time , had been content to place iron squares at the angles , so carelessly that not all the screws were put in . A considerable movement was evidently going on behind in the sand of the Torrent . Then with his wimble he unscrewed the squares so that another push would tear them all off . It was a foolhardy task , during which he frequently only just escaped from falling headlong down the hundred and eighty metres which separated him from the bottom . He had been obliged to seize the oak guides , the joists along which the cages slid ; and suspended over the void he traversed the length of the cross-beams with which they were joined from point to point , slipping along , sitting down , turning over , simply buttressing himself on an elbow or a knee , with tranquil contempt of death . A breath would have sent him over , and three times he caught himself up without a shudder . First he felt with his hand and then worked , only lighting a match when he lost himself in the midst of these slimy beams . After loosening the screws he attacked the wood itself , and the peril became still greater . He had sought for the key , the piece which held the others ; he attacked it furiously , making holes in it , sawing it , thinning it so that it lost its resistance ; while through the holes and the cracks the water which escaped in small jets blinded him and soaked him in icy rain . Two matches were extinguished . They all be-came damp and then there was night , the bottomless depth of darkness . From this moment he was seized by rage . The breath of the invisible intoxicated him , the black horror of this rain-beaten hole urged him to mad destruction . He wreaked his fury at random against the tubbing , striking where he could with his wimble , with his saw , seized by the desire to bring the whole thing at once down on his head . He brought as much ferocity to the task as though he had been digging a knife into the skin of some execrated living creature . He would kill the Voreux at last , that evil beast with ever-open jaws which had swallowed so much human flesh ! The bite of his tools could be heard , his spine lengthened , he crawled , climbed down , then up again , holding on by a miracle , in continual movement , the flight of a nocturnal bird amid the scaffolding of a belfry . But he grew calm , dissatisfied with himself . Why could not things be done coolly ? Without haste he took breath , and then went back into the ladder passage , stopping up the hole by replacing the panel which he had sawn . That was enough ; he did not wish to raise the alarm by excessive damage which would have been repaired immediately . The beast was wounded in the belly ; we should see if it was still alive at night . And he had left his mark ; the frightened world would know that the beast had not died a natural death . He took his time in methodically rolling up his tools in his jacket , and slowly climbed up the ladders . Then , when he had emerged from the pit without being seen , it did not even occur to him to go and change his clothes . Three o ' clock struck . He remained standing on the road waiting . At the same hour Étienne , who was not asleep , was disturbed by a slight sound in the thick night of the room . He distinguished the low breath of the children , and the snoring of Bonnemort and Maheude ; while Jeanlin near him was breathing with a prolonged flute-like whistle . No doubt he had dreamed , and he was turning back when the noise began again . It was the creaking of a palliasse , the stifled effort of someone who is getting up . Then he imagined that Catherine must be ill . "" I say , is it you ? What is the matter ? "" he asked in a low voice . No one replied , and the snoring of the others continued . For five minutes nothing stirred . Then there was fresh creaking . Feeling certain this time that he was not mistaken , he crossed the room , putting his hands out into the darkness to feel the opposite bed . He was surprised to find the young girl sitting up , holding in her breath , awake and on the watch . "" Well ! why do n't you reply ? What are you doing , then ? "" At last she said : "" I 'm getting up . "" "" Getting up at this hour ? "" "" Yes , I 'm going back to work at the pit . "" Étienne felt deeply moved , and sat down on the edge of the palliasse , while Catherine explained her reasons to him . She suffered too much by living thus in idleness , feeling continual looks of reproach weighing on her ; she would rather run the risk of being knocked about down there by Chaval . And if her mother refused to take her money when she brought it , well ! she was big enough to act for herself and make her own soup . "" Go away ; I want to dress . And do n't say anything , will you , if you want to be kind ? "" But he remained near her ; he had put his arms round her waist in a caress of grief and pity . Pressed one against the other in their shirts , they could feel the warmth of each other 's naked flesh , at the edge of this bed , still moist with the night's sleep . She had at first tried to free herself ; then she began to cry quietly , in her turn taking him by the neck to press him against her in a despairing clasp . And they remained , without any further desires , with the past of their unfortunate love , which they had not been able to satisfy . Was it , then , done with for ever ? Would they never dare to love each other some day , now that they were free ? It only needed a little happiness to dissipate their shame--that awkwardness which prevented them from coming together because of all sorts of ideas which they themselves could not read clearly . "" Go to bed again , "" she whispered . "" I do n't want to light up , it would wake mother . It is time ; leave me . "" He could not hear ; he was pressing her wildly , with a heart drowned in immense sadness . The need for peace , an irresistible need for happiness , was carrying him away ; and he saw himself married , in a neat little house , with no other ambition than to live and to die there , both of them together . He would be satisfied with bread ; and if there were only enough for one , she should have it . What was the good of anything else ? Was there anything in life worth more ? But she was unfolding her naked arms . "" Please , leave me . "" Then , in a sudden impulse , he said in her ear : "" Wait , I 'm coming with you . "" And he was himself surprised at what he had said . He had sworn never to go down again ; whence then came this sudden decision , arising from his lips without thought of his , without even a moment's discussion ? There was now such calm within him , so complete a cure of his doubts , that he persisted like a man saved by chance , who has at last found the only harbour from his torment . So he refused to listen to her when she became alarmed , understanding that he was devoting himself for her and fearing the ill words which would greet him at the pit . He laughed at everything ; the placards promised pardon and that was enough . "" I want to work ; that 's my idea . Let us dress and make no noise . "" They dressed themselves in the darkness , with a thousand precautions . She had secretly prepared her miner's clothes the evening before ; he took a jacket and breeches from the cupboard ; and they did not wash themselves for fear of knocking the bowl . All were asleep , but they had to cross the narrow passage where the mother slept . When they started , as ill luck would have it , they stumbled against a chair . She woke and asked drowsily : "" Eh ! what is it ? "" Catherine had stopped , trembling , and violently pressing Étienne's hand . "" It 's me ; do n't trouble yourself , "" he said . "" I feel stifled and am going outside to breathe a bit . "" "" Very well . "" And Maheude fell asleep again . Catherine dared not stir . At last she went down into the parlour and divided a slice of bread-and-butter which she had reserved from a loaf given by a Montsou lady . Then they softly closed the door and went away . Souvarine had remained standing near the Avantage , at the corner of the road . For half an hour he had been looking at the colliers who were returning to work in the darkness , passing by with the dull tramp of a herd . He was counting them , as a butcher counts his beasts at the entrance to the slaughter-house , and he was surprised at their number ; even his pessimism had not foreseen that the number of cowards would have been so great . The stream continued to pass by , and he grew stiff , very cold , with clenched teeth and bright eyes . But he started . Among the men passing by , whose faces he could not distinguish , he had just recognized one by his walk . He came forward and stopped him . "" Where are you going to ? "" Étienne , in surprise , instead of replying , stammered : "" What ! you 've not set out yet ! "" Then he confessed he was going back to the pit . No doubt he had sworn ; only it could not be called life to wait with folded arms for things which would perhaps happen in a hundred years ; and , besides , reasons of his own had decided him . Souvarine had listened to him , shuddering . He seized him by the shoulder , and pushed him towards the settlement . "" Go home again ; I want you to . Do you understand ? "" But Catherine having approached , he recognized her also . Étienne protested , declaring that he allowed no one to judge his conduct . And the engine-man's eyes went from the young girl to her companion , while he stepped back with a sudden , relinquishing movement . When there was a woman in a man's heart , that man was done for ; he might die . Perhaps he saw again in a rapid vision his mistress hanging over there at Moscow that last link cut from his flesh , which had rendered him free of the lives of others and of his own life . He said simply : "" Go . "" Étienne , feeling awkward , was delaying , and trying to find some friendly word , so as not to separate in this manner . "" Then you 're still going ? "" "" Yes . "" "" Well , give me your hand , old chap . A pleasant journey , and no ill feeling . "" The other stretched out an icy hand . Neither friend nor wife . "" Good-bye for good this time . "" "" Yes , good-bye . "" And Souvarine , standing motionless in the darkness , watched Étienne and Catherine entering the Voreux ."	Prose/Lyrical
616	Hi again , Earlier this evening I was able to edit a comment ! I was amazed but when I tried to post it it disappeared . On another review I thought I 'd try again I could n't even find the review I had written . Just info folks . Best of luck with it all , at least I can post reviews now . providing I do n't want to edit them . Things are looking up .	Opinion/Argumentation
1248	Follow-Up Cosmetic Treatment Following Braces Sometimes follow up cosmetic treatment is necessary after braces . There are some things that are not correctable with braces and followup treatment will quickly fix these defects . If you have cracks , uneven teeth or space between teeth , these can be corrected with veneers . Some times traditional braces cause damage to the teeth because you are not able to brush thoroughly . Cosmetic procedures may be necessary to make teeth defect free . Invisalign is a form of treatment with clear aligners . These alignment trays are almost invisible and can be taken out for pictures , eating or the prom . Many people are choosing to use these type of braces because there is no damage to the teeth . Tooth brushing can easily be completed and unsightly marks will not be left on the teeth when braces are taken off . One more way to have beautiful teeth without traditional braces is with a snap on smile . The snap on smile cost is a fraction of what braces cost . This new method for a great smile is created from impressions of your teeth . A custom made mouth piece is made for you creating the perfect smile . It takes about two weeks to complete , and then you will be able to snap it on when necessary . It is so realistic looking no one will know it is not your own .	Promotion
987	Norwich will kick off the new season with an away game against Coventry City . The Canaries will take-on Micky Adams side when the new Championship season begins on Saturday , 6th August . The first home game of the season will see Crewe visit Carrow Road three days later . The first of the two local derbies against Ipswich take place at Portman Road on 17th September with the reverse fixture at Carrow Road on 4th February 2006 .	News
495	"Npower announces further price increase Energy supplier npower today announced plans to increase domestic fuel prices by up to 17.2 % , its third round of price increases this year . OFT to investigate overdraft charges Fees charged by banks when a customer goes overdrawn without permission are to come under the spotlight , the Office of Fair Trading ( OFT ) announced today . Watchdog fines Carphone Warehouse Mobile phone retailer the Carphone Warehouse has been fined £ 245,000 by the financial services watchdog for failing to send out important documents to customers who bought insurance . House prices rise again House prices rose by 1 % in August , figures showed today , suggesting last month's interest rate rise had little impact on homebuyers . Poor hit hardest by dearer oil , says study Research rejects myth of high middle-class inflation , as it is revealed that low earners spend a bigger slice of their income on energy Financial advisers do n't give sound advice , says Which ? Two-thirds of financial advisers are failing to give sound advice , according to the consumer body Which ? . Female bosses gain in small firms Female directors in smaller companies are for the first time earning more than their male counterparts , according to a survey from the Chartered Management Institute . September 6 Government cashes in on stamp duty Rising property prices helped swell the government's coffers by £ 1bn between April and June , as buyers paid an average of £ 3,735 in stamp duty , a building society said today . Inheritance tax labelled unfair Only a tiny proportion of British people think inheritance tax is fair , figures showed today . Three-quarters of respondents said the tax was unfair , while just 8 % thought it was fair . Unions attack ' upstairs-downstairs' pensions divide Directors of Britain's top companies are accused of insulating themselves from the country's pensions crisis after figures revealed they had amassed pensions worth nearly £ 1bn . Insurers fear savings scheme will be baffling Britain's insurers will warn the government today that a proposed pension savings scheme targeted at low and medium-income workers risks becoming a white elephant . September 5 Women fear workplace discrimination A growing number of women believe companies are biased in favour of men and most feel intimidated because of their gender , according to a report published today . Motoring costs exceed £ 2,200 The average motorist spends £ 2,200 running their car each year , and the cost is likely to carry on rising , according to figures published today . Debt advice firm's profits soar Advice firm Debt Free Direct highlighted the problems facing thousands of people with credit card and other outstanding bills when it forecast a surge in profit growth for this year . City trader's £ 5m claim puts spotlight back on bonuses Bonus payments in the City will come under further scrutiny after it was revealed that a bond trader demanded more than 7 . 5m ( £ 5m ) he claimed he was owed from a single trade . September 4 Alliance & Leicester raises interest rates Bank's decision to offer its current account customers a 6.1 % interest rate is the latest move in the ongoing battle by smaller banks to win business from the big five . Poor hit by rising energy costs The poor are suffering more than wealthier sections of British society from spiralling energy costs , a coalition of charities and consumer groups said today . September 3 Influx of EU immigrants pumps up buy-to-let market Property boss Nigel Terrington argues that new workers will provide a firm foundation for the rented sector . New data theft scandal rocks subcontinent's call centres Leading British and American companies face being dragged into an emerging fraud scandal at a call centre company in India . Fury over pensions bonanza for bosses Britain's top businessmen will collect up to £ 1m while companies axe final salary schemes for employees . September 2 10 years with Scottish Widows leaves saver £ 200 down Devastated saver appeals to financial ombudsman . September 1 Provider axes credit card cheques One of the country's biggest credit card providers has said it will no longer issue credit card cheques following a trial suspension earlier in the year . Report finds more students working to fund studies Students are increasingly forced to find part-time work during their holidays to help pay off worsening debt levels , according to union report . Abta travel bond scheme loses OFT approval The Office of Fair Trading has removed the Association of British Travel Agents from its list of approved bodies after it said it was reducing the level of protection it gave consumers . August 31 Car insurance costs set to increase Drivers today faced the prospect of more expensive car insurance as the UK's biggest insurer Norwich Union announced it was increasing premiums . House prices continue to rise House prices rose by 0.8 % in August , figures showed today , suggesting the recent interest rate rise has not yet had an impact on the market . Employers attempt to water down pension reforms The government is under pressure from employers to dilute its pension reforms following claims that the scheme would prove an administrative headache for thousands of businesses . Average Briton has £ 7,548 in savings , says bank Average Britons have enough cash saved to last them 167 days , a study has revealed . August 30 Travellers warned of parking scams Holidaymakers are falling foul of off-airport parking scams , trading standards chiefs warned today . Businesses oppose maternity plans The majority of businesses are opposed to the government's plans to extend paid maternity leave , according to latest figures . Mortgage lending hits three-year high There were further signs of a strengthening housing market today as official data revealed mortgage lending hit a three-year high in July . Air Berlin to sell flights at supermarket checkouts In a bold move that could be the beginning of a partnership between supermarkets and budget airlines , Air Berlin is to sell cut-price flights next month at Lidl checkouts . Daily Mail expands web base by buying Simplyswitch The publisher of the Daily Mail continues its online spending spree by buying the consumer website Simplyswitch for £ 22m . Is there a demand for the divi ? The co-operative is relaunching to appeal to a new generation , losing the capital C and gaining a new ' profit share ' scheme . August 29 Associated buys price website for £ 22m Associated Newspapers has acquired price comparison website SimplySwitch in a £ 22m deal . Law firms accused of homophobia City law firms were accused today of having "" undertones of homophobia "" because of their emphasis on out-of-hours hard drinking and visits to lap dancing clubs . Asda job applicants no longer asked their age The supermarket chain Asda announced yesterday that it would no longer ask people applying for a job at its stores to give their date of birth on their application form . Sainbury's Bank moves to beat cash machine fraud Sainsbury's Bank is to invest £ 3 . 5m on security around its 885 cash machines in a bid to halt fraud which , it believes , has risen by 260 % over the past five years ."	News
1266	What can Hypnotherapy do for you ? Find out here .... You may have tried other conventional methods that have left you disappointed ... You may have heard of the benefits of Hypnotherapy from someone you know ... You may have used hypnosis to some degree before ... A review into how NHS surgeon Ian Paterson was able to continue carrying out unnecessary surgery and using a controversial technique that left hundreds of women at risk from breast cancer has found concerns dated back to 2003 .	Promotion
1058	"This Schedule applies in relation to such orders , and to such extent , as is provided by this Part and Part 4 and any other enactment ; and references in this Schedule to an order shall be construed accordingly . General restrictions on conduct 2 ( 1 ) An order may - ( a ) prohibit the making or performance of an agreement ; ( b ) require any party to an agreement to terminate the agreement . ( 2 ) An order made by virtue of sub-paragraph ( 1 ) shall not - ( a ) prohibit the making or performance of ; or ( b ) require any person to terminate , an agreement so far as , if made , the agreement would relate , or ( as the case may be ) so far as the agreement relates , to the terms and conditions of employment of any workers or to the physical conditions in which any workers are required to work . 3 ( 1 ) An order may prohibit the withholding from any person of - ( a ) any goods or services ; ( b ) any orders for any such goods or services . ( 2 ) References in sub-paragraph ( 1 ) to withholding include references to - ( a ) agreeing or threatening to withhold ; and ( b ) procuring others to withhold or to agree or threaten to withhold . 4 An order may prohibit requiring as a condition of the supply of goods or services to any person - ( a ) the buying of any goods ; ( b ) the making of any payment in respect of services other than the goods or services supplied ; ( c ) the doing of any other such matter or the refraining from doing anything mentioned in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) or any other such matter . 5 An order may prohibit - ( a ) discrimination between persons in the prices charged for goods or services ; ( b ) anything which the relevant authority considers to be such discrimination ; ( c ) procuring others to do anything which is such discrimination or which the relevant authority considers to be such discrimination . 6 An order may prohibit - ( a ) giving , or agreeing to give in other ways , any preference in respect of the supply of goods or services or in respect of the giving of orders for goods or services ; ( b ) giving , or agreeing to give in other ways , anything which the relevant authority considers to be a preference in respect of the supply of goods or services or in respect of the giving of orders for goods or services ; ( c ) procuring others to do anything mentioned in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) . 7 An order may prohibit - ( a ) charging , for goods or services supplied , prices differing from those in any published list or notification ; ( b ) doing anything which the relevant authority considers to be charging such prices . 8 ( 1 ) An order may regulate the prices to be charged for any goods or services . ( 2 ) No order shall be made by virtue of sub-paragraph ( 1 ) unless the relevant report in relation to the matter concerned identifies the prices charged for the goods or services as requiring remedial action . ( 3 ) In this paragraph "" the relevant report "" means the report of the Commission which is required by the enactment concerned before an order can be made under this Schedule . 9 An order may prohibit the exercise of any right to vote exercisable by virtue of the holding of any shares , stock or securities . General obligations to be performed 10 ( 1 ) An order may require a person to supply goods or services or to do anything which the relevant authority considers appropriate to facilitate the provision of goods or services . ( 2 ) An order may require a person who is supplying , or is to supply , goods or services to supply such goods or services to a particular standard or in a particular manner or to do anything which the relevant authority considers appropriate to facilitate the provision of such goods or services to that standard or in that manner . 11 An order may require any activities to be carried on separately from any other activities . Acquisitions and divisions 12 ( 1 ) An order may prohibit or restrict - ( a ) the acquisition by any person of the whole or part of the undertaking or assets of another person's business ; ( b ) the doing of anything which will or may result in two or more bodies corporate becoming interconnected bodies corporate . ( 2 ) An order may require that if - ( a ) an acquisition of the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) is made ; or ( b ) anything is done which results in two or more bodies corporate becoming interconnected bodies corporate ; the persons concerned or any of them shall observe any prohibitions or restrictions imposed by or under the order . ( 3 ) This paragraph shall also apply to any result consisting in two or more enterprises ceasing to be distinct enterprises ( other than any result consisting in two or more bodies corporate becoming interconnected bodies corporate ) . 13 ( 1 ) An order may provide for - ( a ) the division of any business ( whether by the sale of any part of the undertaking or assets or otherwise ) ; ( b ) the division of any group of interconnected bodies corporate . ( 2 ) For the purposes of sub-paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) all the activities carried on by way of business by any one person or by any two or more interconnected bodies corporate may be treated as a single business . ( 3 ) An order made by virtue of this paragraph may contain such provision as the relevant authority considers appropriate to effect or take account of the division , including , in particular , provision as to - ( a ) the transfer or creation of property , rights , liabilities or obligations ; ( b ) the number of persons to whom the property , rights , liabilities or obligations are to be transferred or in whom they are to be vested ; ( c ) the time within which the property , rights , liabilities or obligations are to be transferred or vested ; ( d ) the adjustment of contracts ( whether by discharge or reduction of any liability or obligation or otherwise ) ; ( e ) the creation , allotment , surrender or cancellation of any shares , stock or securities ; ( f ) the formation or winding up of any company or other body of persons corporate or unincorporate ; ( g ) the amendment of the memorandum and articles or other instruments regulating any such company or other body of persons ; ( h ) the extent to which , and the circumstances in which , provisions of the order affecting a company or other body of persons corporate or unincorporate in its share capital , constitution or other matters may be altered by the company or other body of persons concerned ; ( i ) the registration of the order under any enactment by a company or other body of persons corporate or unincorporate which is affected by it as mentioned in paragraph ( h ) ; ( j ) the continuation , with any necessary change of parties , of any legal proceedings ; ( k ) the approval by the relevant authority or another person of anything required by virtue of the order to be done or of any person to whom anything is to be transferred , or in whom anything is to be vested , by virtue of the order ; or ( l ) the appointment of trustees or other persons to do anything on behalf of another person which is required of that person by virtue of the order or to monitor the doing by that person of any such thing . 14 The references in paragraph 13 to the division of a business as mentioned in sub-paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) of that paragraph shall , in the case of an order under section 75 , 83 , 84 , 160 or 161 , or an order under paragraph 5 , 10 or 11 of Schedule 7 , be construed as including references to the separation , by the sale of any part of any undertaking or assets concerned or other means , of enterprises which are under common control ( within the meaning of section 26 ) otherwise than by reason of their being enterprises of interconnected bodies corporate . Supply and publication of information 15 ( 1 ) An order may require a person supplying goods or services to publish a list of prices or otherwise notify prices . ( 2 ) An order made by virtue of this paragraph may also require or prohibit the publication or other notification of further information . 16 An order may prohibit any person from notifying ( whether by publication or otherwise ) to persons supplying goods or services prices recommended or suggested as appropriate to be charged by those persons for those goods or services . 17 ( 1 ) An order may require a person supplying goods or services to publish - ( a ) accounting information in relation to the supply of the goods or services ; ( b ) information in relation to the quantities of goods or services supplied ; ( c ) information in relation to the geographical areas in which they are supplied . ( 2 ) In sub-paragraph ( 1 ) "" accounting information "" , in relation to a supply of goods or services , means information as to - ( a ) the costs of the supply , including fixed costs and overheads ; ( b ) the manner in which fixed costs and overheads are calculated and apportioned for accounting purposes of the supplier ; and ( c ) the income attributable to the supply . 18 An order made by virtue of paragraph 15 or 17 may provide for the manner in which information is to be published or otherwise notified . 19 An order may - ( a ) require any person to supply information to the relevant authority ; ( b ) where the OFT is not the relevant authority , require any person to supply information to the OFT ; ( c ) provide for the publication , by the person who has received information by virtue of paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) , of that information . National security 20 ( 1 ) An order may make such provision as the person making the order considers to be appropriate in the interests of national security ( within the meaning of section 58 ( 1 )) . ( 2 ) Such provision may , in particular , include provision requiring a person to do , or not to do , particular things . Supplementary 21 ( 1 ) An order , as well as making provision in relation to all cases to which it may extend , may make provision in relation to - ( a ) those cases subject to specified exceptions ; or ( b ) any particular case or class of case . ( 2 ) An order may , in relation to the cases in relation to which it applies , make the full provision which may be made by it or any less provision ( whether by way of exception or otherwise ) . ( 3 ) An order may make provision for matters to be determined under the order . ( 4 ) An order may - ( a ) make different provision for different cases or classes of case or different purposes ; ( b ) make such transitional , transitory or saving provision as the person making it considers appropriate . 22 ( 1 ) An order which may prohibit the doing of anything ( or the refraining from doing anything ) may in particular by virtue of paragraph 21 ( 2 ) prohibit the doing of that thing ( or the refraining from doing of it ) except to such extent and in such circumstances as may be provided by or under the order . ( 2 ) Any such order may , in particular , prohibit the doing of that thing ( or the refraining from doing of it ) - ( a ) without the agreement of the relevant authority or another person ; or ( b ) by or in relation to a person who has not been approved by the relevant authority or another person . Interpretation 23 References in this Schedule to the notification of prices or other information are not limited to the notification in writing of prices or other information . 24 In this Schedule "" the relevant authority "" means - ( a ) in the case of an order to be made by the OFT , the OFT ; ( b ) in the case of an order to be made by the Commission , the Commission ; and ( c ) in the case of an order to be made by the Secretary of State , the Secretary of State ."	Legal
1253	"The construction industry is acknowledging its role as one of the more important consumers of materials and energy . As the preservation of the earth's remaining natural resources becomes a global concern with all sectors finding ways to do their share , the construction sector has come up with the concept of the "" green building "" design . The green building system promotes energy savings , renewable raw materials , and minimized pollution . At the forefront of this green building revolution are pre-engineered and prefabricated steel buildings . Throughout their entire lifecycle , steel buildings , compared with concrete buildings , use lesser energy , have lesser material consumption , and lesser waste materials during their construction . Besides being 100 % recyclable and reusable , the steel used in prefabricated steel buildings can contribute toward several other LEED credits , either directly or indirectly . For instance , steel buildings , which are designed through the use of revolutionary engineering and technology , are weather tight and have superior structural integrity . The use of steel as a building envelope results in less air loss and better HVAC performance over the life of steel buildings . All the building components of steel buildings are manufactured to their exact specifications , which means that on-site waste is greatly minimized . When steel buildings are demolished , the magnetic properties of steel , greatly facilitates its separation from other materials , ready for recycling once again . The high LEED ratings of prefabricated steel buildings make them the intelligent choice over traditional methods of construction , especially for those who want to make their share in the "" green revolution "" ."	Promotion
999	Fed Cup final draw made Francesca Schiavone will open Italy's bid for its first Fed Cup , ... More Tennis FED CUP 2006 Schiavone to open Fed Cup Francesca Schiavone will open Italy's bid for its first Fed Cup , being drawn against Belgium's Kirsten Flipkens in the first singles match . Henin-Hardenne to lead Belgium Tennis FED CUP 2006 Henin to boost Belgium Justine Henin-Hardenne can put the disappointment of her US Open final defeat behind her when she leads Belgium in the Fed Cup final . Clijsters has faith in Henin Tennis FED CUP 2006 Clijsters has faith in Henin Kim Clijsters believes French Open champion Justine-Henin Hardenne can power Belgium to victory over Italy in the Fed Cup final . Davenport against round-robin Sharapova qualifies for WTA Tour Champs Tennis FED CUP 2006 Henin-Hardenne gives Fed Cup green light World number three Justine Henin-Hardenne will play for Belgium in the final of the Fed Cup against Italy in September . video : Henin advances Henin-Hardenne to miss Fed Cup Tennis FED CUP 2006 Henin-Hardenne to miss Fed Cup Justine Henin-Hardenne plans to miss Belgium's Fed Cup final against Italy after a row with the Belgium Tennis Association . Fed Cup news Tennis FED CUP 2006 Belgium to face Italy Kim Clijsters powered Belgium into their second Fed Cup final on Sunday with a comfortable 6-0 6-1 win over American teenager Vania King . Tennis FED CUP 2006 Italy reach first final Italy reached their first Fed Cup final where they will face Belgium thanks to Flavia Pennetta's win over Lourdes Dominguez on Sunday . Belgium and Italy in control China in Fed Cup elite Tennis FED CUP 2006 China in Fed Cup elite China secured a place in Fed Cup elite for the first time as Li Na beat German Kathrin Woerle to give her country an unassailable 3-0 lead . Video : Henin takes title again Belgium and Italy in control Tennis FED CUP 2006 Belgium and Italy in control Wins for Kim Clijsters and Kerstin Flipkens gave Belgium a commanding 2-0 lead over the USA in their Fed Cup semi-final on Saturday Fed Cup - Draw and Results Tennis FED CUP 2006 Henin pulls out of Fed Cup Wimbledon finalist Justine Henin-Hardenne has pulled out of the Belgium team to face the United States in the Fed Cup semi-finals this week	News
1614	"Promotions for news / opinion / discussion web sites , or other secondary sources of public information Organizations able to fund radio marketing campaigns are respectfully requested to use underwriting sponsorships rather than soliciting PSA slots . WTUL targets PSAs towards organizations not otherwise able to promote their service efforts . Please contact us to discuss including WTUL in your media strategy . For dated material , please allow at least two weeks' notice , and preferably a month . Our announcement roster is usually prepared weekly , and sometimes earlier ; we regret that we do not revise schedules once published for late notices . We avoid opening attachments --- we 've had bad experiences with viruses in the past . And it 's much easier for us to copy / paste text into our rotations without all the formatting in attachments . Currently , all of our PSAs are read by the on-air DJ ; we are not currently airing pre-recorded spots . Please include at least one form of public contact information in your PSA text : an email address , a phone number and / or a web page URL . Our standard form for the last sentence is : "" More information is available by calling ... , by email to ... , or online at ... "" . PSAs are 50-60 spoken words at the very most , and normally shorter . Note that URLs , phone numbers and email addresses include several spoken words , even though they are written as a single word . Please use standard spellings : PSAs will read and not viewed ; trademarks or other vanity spellings can not be reproduced on the radio . Please send ready-to-air copy as a short paragraph of complete sentences . We receive too many submissions to take the time to rewrite lengthy ones , or to re-write text that would sound senseless when read aloud , so please do not ask us to "" just shape this up "" or "" just edit this down to size "" . Press releases are normally much , much longer than what we run as PSAs . Again , we can not offer to whittle down paragraphs of material into an appropriate announcement , and it 's often a significant bit of work to figure out the most important parts . So please send us text of suitable length . Flyers are also not a good thing to send for PSAs : flyers are a visual medium , not for reading aloud . PSAs should be a short paragraph , but flyers are usually just headlines and bullet points . Again , we can not offer to rewrite everyone's flyers into a regular paragraph , so please send us ready-to-read text . Information contained in material submitted to WTUL for distribution as PSAs or other on-air content must be unencumbered by copyright or other intellectual property claims . Restricted material , or material of ambiguous status , can not be aired . PSAs are scheduled by rotation ; a spot's frequency depends on the number of other spots in the rotation , and its scheduling varies randomly . Generally , short-term spots with a close deadline will be aired more frequently than less-timely and longer-term material . Because PSAs are a free service , we do not offer scheduling to specific times , wording guarantees , or scheduling records ; groups interested in these services are encouraged to inquire about Sponsorship Underwriting , through which we schedule more tailored announcements in consultation with donors . Phrase PSAs as providing information about opportunities , not as demanding action --- that is , the PSA should use declarative sentences ( like "" We need help . "" ) , not directions ( "" Help us now . "" ) or rhetorical questions ( "" Would you help this clearly in-need group ? "" ) ."	Promotion
769	Terrain reconstruction and sub-surface modeling over archaeological sites , using geophysical prospection data . Geophysical survey data from archaeological sites is now widely used in prospecting and evaluating archaeological sites prior to more detailed investigation such as excavation . Visual inspection of geophysical data can reveal much about the organizational structure , form and extent of the archaeological site . However , information contained in such images potentially contains a rich , currently untapped , source of information about the physical nature and depth of buildings and ditch structures . To access this information requires application of reconstruction and modeling methods to able to build a realistic 3-dimensional model of the sub-surface features . Such modeling from geophysical images would provide the next generation of archaeologists with detailed structural information prior to potential excavation . A substantive part of this will include utilization of new image-processing reconstruction techniques , with ground-truth data from physical properties of site materials . The student undertaking this research should have a numerate background in a physical science , good mathematical ability and experience of programming ( or willingness to learn ) . IT and geophysical methods skills training will be provided . The project will be working extensively with English Heritage , Ancient Monuments Laboratory .	Information/Explanation
1472	"Majoring in Biology , Society and the Environment while completing a minor is French , serving as a volunteer for the Minnesota Orchestra while also volunteering with injured animals at the Wildlife Rehabilitation Center , Gabby refuses to choose between her love of science and the humanities . This makes her a perfect fit for Friends of the Mississippi River . Whether it 's working alongside people at our events , hand-sorting bags of volunteer-collected native prairie seed , or patiently re-crafting and uploading announcement onto websites of various speeds in the FMR office , Gabby handles it all with aplomb . Gabby's favorite days at FMR are the ones she does n't come in ( well , to the office ) . She loves getting to know previously unfamiliar areas at the outdoor events , and especially enjoys "" seeing all the people you might not normally interact with coming together . "" But she 's enjoying the challenge of her indoor work as well , describing her immersion in an office atmosphere and assistance with outreach work as a "" real learning experience . "" Gabby stays motivated by connecting her cubicle with the river she loves . "" I love being able to carry things through the overall picture , "" she said . "" It 's nice to connect the dots between doing the outreach , attending the events , and then helping with work like sorting the seed that volunteers collected after the event . "" If you 're a student or recent graduate who can connect the dots like Gabby , we 'd love to hear from you . Applications are now being considered for January / February 2013 for both the restoration and education events and the Mississippi River Challenge internship programs . To learn more , visit our volunteer page . Read more ..."	Promotion
798	Definitions of people 1 . [ n ] - members of a family line 2 . [ n ] - ( plural ) any group of human beings ( men or women or children ) collectively 3 . [ v ] - fill with people or supply with inhabitants Quotes - Example use of the word people 1 . old people 2 . there were at least 200 people in the audience 3 . his people have been farmers for generations 4 . are your people still alive ? 5 . people a room 6 . The government wanted to populate the remote area of the country	Information/Explanation
1229	"Provide local mental health care for my daughter . My daughter Rachael just turned 15 . Growing up she has always been a very loving , cheeky young lady with a great sense of humour and an amazing ability to make everybody laugh . Unfortunately when she was 13 she developed severe depression and has been suffering ever since . At a time when she needed her family around her the most , was moved to a specialist unit on the other side of the country . She is now in a medium secure unit 153 miles from home . As her mother it has been unbearable to have Rachael so far away from our family , who live in Lancashire . I can only visit once every two weeks , for 2 hours maximum -- my other children see their sister even less . It costs £ 200 every time for me , my husband and my children to visit her . I ca n't afford to see her anymore and I am unable to be with my child when she needs me the most . Rachael often calls me up and begs me to visit her . I know this distance is hurting her recovery . Young people's mental health care has been overlooked in this country for far too long and thousands of families like mine are being neglected . In Lancashire , particularly , I know people are n't getting the treatment they deserve . Even our MP , Lindsay Hoyle , has said the care in our area is "" simply inadequate "" . Something needs to change and high quality local care for Rachael could be the first step . Petitions have helped other families in similar situations . When Phill Wills started his # BringJoshHome campaign to get care for his son , his local authorities started to listen . Public pressure can do the same for us . Please join me in calling on Lancashire NHS Trust to localise Rachael's care and get her treatment closer to us . Please , bring my daughter home . Thank you ."	Promotion
759	11 Total energy in the DRF model The total energy in the DRF model is may be partitioned in various contributions : energy of the quantum system This is the energy of the quantum-mechanical system , as calculated with the supported wave functions . Any change in energy upon interaction with the classical system is to be measured against a vacuum calculation on the quantum-mechanical system . energy of the classical system This is the energy of the classical system , calculated as if there were no QM system present . The zero of energy depends on the specification of the classical system ; for example , atoms may be defined to be part of molecules , excluding their interactions , making the infinitely separate molecules defining the zero of energy , rather than infinitely separate atoms . In this energy interactions between classical subsystems ( e.g. molecules ) are included . They may be electrostatic , dispersion , repulsion , and induction interactions . interaction energy This is the sum of all separable interaction energies : electrostatic interactions : interactions between point charges in the classical system and the QM charge distribution ( nuclei and electrons ) . Induction Interactions , also called screening . This is the interaction of one subsystem with the reaction field induced by another subsystem . The interaction of the subsystem with its own reaction field is also part of the interaction , and is used to calculate the polarization energy , which is half the energy gain from induction at equilibrium . dispersion interactions : an estimate of the dispersion energy between QM and classical subsystems , based upon the Second-order Perturbation ( SOP ) expression for the dispersion interaction , may be calculated ( see also section 12.4 ) . model repulsion energy : a molecular mechanics force-field expression from CHARMM [ 7 ] is used to model ( Pauli ) repulsion between subsystems . NOTE : Electrons do not ' feel ' the repulsion and care has to be taken to avoid close contacts , which may lead to electrons ' wandering off ' the QM system . Devices to lessen this effect are available ( see section 12.2 ) Care should be taken in comparing total energies that the proper reference systems have been defined . In a single calculation , one does not have access to the polarization energy of the QM system : this is the change of the expectation value of the vacuum hamiltonian of the QM distribution ( and therefore internal QM energy ) upon interaction with the surroundings . A separate calculation in the absence of the surroundings ( or with the effect of the surroundings treated as a perturbation only ) is necessary to obtain this ( interaction ) energy . The definition of the zero of energy for the classical system has been discussed above . The total energy of QM + classical system is given on output under : configuration total energy . Contributions have been described in the Output section	Information/Explanation
412	Food Sounds So Good at D ' Arcy's Food has never sounded so good at Darcy's restaurant and bar in Princes Square have launched a relaxing night of entertainment for their customers . Talented three-piece band ' The Easy Orchestra ' provide a selection of soulful classics and easy listening standards for diners to enjoy whilst they sample the restaurant's fantastic cuisine . The bustling restaurant , situated in the ground floor of the popular city shopping destination , kicks off the entertainment at 8 . 00pm every Thursday when ' ' The Easy Orchestra ' begin their set , playing fantastic classics such as Frank Sinatra , Dean Martin and Andy Williams ( the band will also takes requests from customers ) . Customers ' musical expertises are put to the test later on in the evening with D ' Arcy's ' Name That Tune ' music quiz where diners can compete with each other for the chance to prove their superior music knowledge and can win a delicious bottle of wine in the process . A set menu is available from Sunday-Friday from 5pm and Saturday from 6pm for £ 9.95 for two courses and £ 13.95 for three . The menu includes a fantastic varied selection such as Soup of the Day or D ' Arcy's Homemade Pate served with apple and cider chutney served with Arran oatcakes to start , Chicken fillet marinated in garlic and rosemary served with creamy spinach mash and a mild red wine gravy or Grilled sea bass fillet served with roast salmon fishcake drizzled with pesto which are just a few of the choices for the main course . Those opting for the three course menu are in for a treat with the tantalizing range of desserts on offer , such as Bailey's cheesecake served with vanilla cream or hot rhubarb and apple crumble served with vanilla ice cream . All this mouth-watering food can be washed down with one of the bar's speciality cocktails , all just £ 3.50 , including Mojito ( Bacardi , lime and gomme syrup finished with mint leaves and brown sugar crushed ice ) or a Scotch Monk ( J & B with Frangelico , honey and apple juice ) . Other drinks offers include a bottle of white or red promotional wine for just £ 8.95 and buckets of Corona , five for £ 10 . The Easy Orchestra live music night is on at D ' Arcy 's every Thursday from 8 . 00-11 . 30pm . D ' Arcy's Lower Courtyard 0141 226 4309	Promotion
126	When you use Google to search , we try to provide the best possible results . To do that , we sometimes customize your search results based on one or more factors . Click View customizations , which may appear at the bottom of the search results page or to the right of the search box , to see what type of information was used to customize your results . ( To protect your privacy , this information becomes unavailable after a brief period of time . Learn more about Google's privacy policy ) Types of customizations Search history Sometimes , we customize your search results based on your past search activity on Google , such as searches you 've done or results you 've clicked . If you 're signed in to your Google Account and have Web History enabled , these customizations are based on your Web History . If you 're signed in and do n't have Web History enabled , no search history customizations will be made . ( Using Web History , you can control exactly what searches are stored and used to personalize your results . Learn about using Web History ) If you are n ' t signed in to a Google Account , your search results may be customized based on past search information linked to your browser using a cookie . Because many people might be searching on one computer , Google does n ' t show a list of previous search activity on this computer . Learn how to turn off these customizations Location We try to use information about your location to customize your search results if there 's a reason to believe it 'll be helpful ( for example , if you search for a restaurant chain , you may want to find the one near you ) . That customization may rely on a default location that you 've previously specified ( for example , in Google Maps ) or an approximate location based on your IP address . Learn more about location	Instruction
100	This is a representation of your brain . And your brain can be broken into two parts . There 's the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive . And so if we had a scale to measure the aptitude of each hemisphere , then we can plot our brain . And for example , this would be somebody who 's completely logical . This would be someone who 's entirely intuitive . So where would you put your brain on this scale ? Some of us may have opted for one of these extremes , but I think for most people in the audience , your brain is something like this -- with a high aptitude in both hemispheres at the same time . It 's not like they 're mutually exclusive or anything . You can be logical and intuitive . And so I consider myself one of these people , along with most of the other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good deal of logic to string together these complex ideas . But at the same time , we need a good deal of intuition to actually make the experiments work . How do we develop this intuition ? Well we like to play with stuff . So we go out and play with it , and then we see how it acts . And then we develop our intuition from there . And really you do the same thing . So some intuition that you may have developed over the years is that one thing is only in one place at a time . I mean , it can sound weird to think about one thing being in two different places at the same time , but you were n ' t born with this notion , you developed it . And I remember watching a kid playing on a car stop . He was just a toddler and he was n ' t very good at it , and he kept falling over . But I bet playing with this car stop taught him a really valuable lesson , and that 's that large things do n't let you get right past them , and that they stay in one place . And so this is a great conceptual model to have of the world , unless you 're a particle physicist . It 'd be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they do n't play with car stops , they play with these little weird particles . And when they play with their particles , they find they do all sorts of really weird things -- like they can fly right through walls , or they can be in two different places at the same time . And so they wrote down all these observations , and they called it the theory of quantum mechanics . And so that 's where physics was at a few years ago ; you needed quantum mechanics to describe little , tiny particles . But you did n't need it to describe the large , everyday objects around us . This did n't really sit well with my intuition , and maybe it 's just because I do n't play with particles very often . Well , I play with them sometimes , but not very often . And I 've never seen them . I mean , nobody 's ever seen a particle . But it did n't sit well with my logical side either . Because if everything is made up of little particles and all the little particles follow quantum mechanics , then should n ' t everything just follow quantum mechanics ? I do n't see any reason why it should n ' t . And so I 'd feel a lot better about the whole thing if we could somehow show that an everyday object also follows quantum mechanics . So a few years ago , I set off to do just that . So I made one . This is the first object that you can see that has been in a mechanical quantum superposition . So what we 're looking at here is a tiny computer chip . And you can sort of see this green dot right in the middle . And that 's this piece of metal I 'm going to be talking about in a minute . This is a photograph of the object . And here I 'll zoom-in a little bit . We 're looking right there in the center . And then here 's a really , really big close-up of the little piece of metal . So what we 're looking at is a little chunk of metal , and it 's shaped like a diving board , and it 's sticking out over a ledge . And so I made this thing in nearly the same way as you make a computer chip . I went into a clean room with a fresh silicon wafer , and then I just cranked away at all the big machines for about 100 hours . For the last stuff , I had to build my own machine -- to make this swimming pool-shaped hole underneath the device . This device has the ability to be in a quantum superposition , but it needs a little help to do it . Here , let me give you an analogy . You know how uncomfortable it is to be in a crowded elevator ? I mean , when I 'm in an elevator all alone , I do all sorts of weird things , but then other people get on board and I stop doing those things , because I do n't want to bother them , or , frankly , scare them . So quantum mechanics says that inanimate objects feel the same way . The fellow passengers for inanimate objects are not just people , but it 's also the light shining on it and the wind blowing past it and the heat of the room . And so we knew , if we wanted to see this piece of metal behave quantum mechanically , we 're going to have to kick out all the other passengers . And so that 's what we did . We turned off the lights , and then we put it in a vacuum and sucked out all the air , and then we cooled it down to just a fraction of a degree above absolute zero . Now , all alone in the elevator , the little chunk of metal is free to act however it wanted . And so we measured its motion . We found it was moving in really weird ways . Instead of just sitting perfectly still , it was vibrating . And the way it was vibrating was breathing something like this -- like expanding and contracting bellows . And by giving it a gentle nudge , we were able to make it both vibrate and not vibrate at the same time -- something that 's only allowed with quantum mechanics . So what I 'm telling you here is something truly fantastic . What does it mean for one thing to be both vibrating and not vibrating at the same time ? So let 's think about the atoms . So one case : all the trillions of atoms that make up that chunk of metal are sitting still and at the same time those same atoms are moving up and down . Now it 's only at precise times when they align . The rest of the time they 're delocalized . That means that every atom is in two different places at the same time , which in turn means the entire chunk of metal is in two different places . I think this is really cool . ( Laughter ) Really . ( Applause ) It was worth locking myself in a clean room to do this for all those years . Because , check this out , the difference in scale between a single atom and that chunk of metal is about the same as the difference between that chunk of metal and you . So if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , that chunk of metal can be in two different places , then why not you ? I mean , this is just my logical side talking . So imagine if you 're in multiple places at the same time , what would that be like ? How would your consciousness handle your body being delocalized in space ? There 's one more part to the story . It 's when we warmed it up , and we turned on the lights and looked inside the box , we saw that the piece metal was still there in one piece . And so I had to develop this new intuition , that it seems like all the objects in the elevator are really just quantum objects just crammed into a tiny space . You hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is all interconnected . Well , that 's not quite right ; it 's more than that , it 's deeper . It 's that those connections , your connections to all the things around you , literally define who you are . And that 's the profound weirdness of quantum mechanics . Thank you . ( Applause )	Opinion/Argumentation
921	"A Dash from Diamond City George Manville Fenn | Next chapter | | Previous chapter | | Contents | Chapter XXXVIII . The Surgeon's Words . "" Bad enough , poor fellow ; but I think I can pull them both round . Nothing vital , you see , touched , and these Mauser bullets make wonderfully clean wounds ! "" "" And the other ? "" "" Bad flesh-wounds--great loss of blood . I just got at that artery in time . "" West heard these words spoken by someone whose head kept getting in his way as he lay staring up at the great bright stars directly overhead , and it seemed very tiresome . He tried to speak and ask whoever it was to move aside ; but his tongue would not stir , and he lay perfectly still , trying to think what it all meant , and in a dull far-off sort of way it gradually dawned upon him that the people near him were talking about the Boers he had somehow or another and for some reason shot down . Then , as he thought , the calm feeling he was enjoying grew troubled , and he began to recall the fact that he had been shooting somebody's ponies to supply somebody else with food , and that he must have been mad , for he felt convinced that they would not be nice eating , as he had heard that the fat was oily and the flesh tasted sweet . Besides which , it would be horrible to have to eat horseflesh at a time when his throat was dry with an agonising thirst . Then the terrible thought forced itself upon him that while shooting down ponies he had missed them and killed men instead , and once more all was blank . The next time the power of thinking came to the poor fellow all was very dark , and a jarring pain kept running through him , caused by the motion of his hard bed , which had somehow grown wheels and was being dragged along . Cattle were lowing and sheep bleating . There were shouts , too , such as he knew were uttered by Kaffir drivers , and there were the crackings of their great whips . After a while he made out the trampling of horses and heard men talking , while in an eager confused way he listened for what they would say about those two wounded Boers , one of whom had nearly bled to death before that artery was stopped . These , he felt , must be the Boers he shot when he ought to have shot ponies . And as he got to that point the trouble of thinking worried his brain so that he could think no more , and again all was blank . At last came a morning when West woke up in a great room which seemed to be familiar . There were nurses moving about in their clean white-bordered dresses , and he knew that he was in some place fitted up as a hospital . Several of the occupants of the beds wore bandages suggestive of bad wounds , and to help his thoughts there came from time to time the dull heavy reports of cannon . He did not recollect all that had preceded his coming yet ; but he grasped the fact that he had been wounded and was now in hospital . He lay for a few minutes with his brain growing clearer and clearer , and at last , seeing one of the nurses looking in his direction , he tried to raise one hand , but could not . The other proved more manageable , and in obedience to a sign the nurse came , laid a hand upon his forehead , and smiled down in his face . "" Your head's cooler ! "" she said . "" You 're better ? "" "" Yes , "" he replied : "" have I been very bad ? "" "" Terribly ! We thought once that you would not recover . "" "" And Ingleborough ? "" "" Ingleborough ? Oh , you mean your companion who was brought in with you ? "" West nodded : he could not speak . "" Well , I think he will get better now ! "" "" But his wound : is it so bad ? "" "" He nearly bled to death ; but you must not talk much yet . "" "" Only a little ! "" said West eagerly . "" Pray tell me , he will get better ? "" "" Oh yes : there 's no doubt about it , I believe . "" "" Oh , thank goodness ! "" cried West fervently . "" But what place is this ? "" "" This ? Why , Kimberley , of course ! "" "" Ah ! "" cried West excitedly , and his hand went to his breast . "" My jacket ! "" "" Your jacket ? "" said the nurse . "" Oh , that was all cut and torn , and soaked with blood . I think it has been burnt . "" "" What ! "" cried West . "" Oh , do n't say that ! "" "" Hush , hush ! What is this ? "" said a deep , stern voice . "" Patient delirious , nurse ? "" A quiet , grave-looking face was bent over West's pillow , and the poor fellow jumped at the idea that this must be the surgeon . "" No , sir ; no , sir ! "" he whispered excitedly , catching at the new-comer's arm . "" I am better : it is only that I am in trouble about my clothes . "" "" Clothes , eh ? "" said the doctor , smiling . "" Oh , you will not want clothes for two or three weeks yet . "" "" Not to dress , sir , "" whispered West excitedly ; "" but I must have my jacket . It is important ! "" "" Why ? "" said the surgeon , laying his hand upon the young man's brow soothingly . "" I was bringing on a despatch from Mafeking when I was shot down , sir , "" whispered West excitedly . "" It was sewn up for safety in the breast . "" "" Indeed ? "" said the doctor , laying his fingers on the lad's pulse and looking keenly in his eyes . "" Yes , sir , indeed ! "" said West eagerly . "" I know what I am saying , sir . "" "" Yes , you are cool now ; but I 'm afraid the jacket will have been burned with other garments of the kind . Of course , the contents of the pockets will have been preserved . "" "" Oh , they are nothing , sir , "" cried West piteously . "" It is a letter sewn up in the breast that I want . It is so important ! "" "" Well , I 'll see ! "" said the doctor gravely , and , signing to the nurse who had been in attendance , he left the ward , with West in a state of feverish anxiety . At last , to West's intense satisfaction , the horribly blood-stained garment was brought in , and his hand went out trembling to catch it by the breast , fully expecting to find the missive gone . "" Yes , "" he cried wildly , "" it is here ! "" "" Hah ! "" cried the doctor , and , taking out his knife , he prepared to slit it up , but West checked him . "" No , "" he panted : "" the Commandant . Send for him here ! "" "" My good lad , he is so busy , he would not come ! Let me cut out the message and send it to him . "" "" No , "" said West firmly ; "" I will not part from it till he comes . "" "" But really -- "" "" Tell him a wounded messenger from Mafeking has a letter for him , and he will come . "" West was right : the magic word Mafeking brought the Commandant to his bedside ; and as soon as he came up he stopped short and made what little blood poor West had left flush to his face , for he cried : "" Hullo ! Why , it is our illicit-diamond-dealer ! I thought we were never to see you again ! "" "" It is not true ! "" cried West . "" The man who denounced me lied ! "" "" Then you have been to Mafeking ? "" "" Yes , sir : Mr. Ingleborough and I. "" "" And brought back a despatch ? "" "" Yes , sir : here it is ! "" "" Where ? "" said the Commandant , glancing down at the stained tunic on the bed . "" Open it now , sir , "" said West to the doctor , who took out his knife again , slit the cloth , and drew out the big letter , terribly soaked with its bearer's blood . "" Bravo ! Brave messenger ! "" cried the Commandant , grasping West's hand before tearing open the packet and finding enough of the despatch unstained to allow him to decipher the principal part of the text . "" Hah ! "" he cried , when he had finished , "" on the whole good news ; but , "" he continued , glancing at the date , "" you have been a long time coming . "" "" Have I , sir ? We lost no time ! "" "" The poor fellow has been lying here for a fortnight , sir , "" said the surgeon . "" A fortnight ago ? Why , that was the day when the reconnoitring party returned with the captured sheep and cattle . Yes , I remember now : they had a brush with the Boers up the river . Of course , yes : they were attracted by the firing , and saved two young Englishmen . You are one of them ? "" "" Yes , sir . "" "" Well done , then ! Our raiding party did good work , though they did have a desperate fight afterwards to get through the Boer lines . Getting better ? "" "" Yes , sir , "" said West , with a sigh of relief : "" now that I have got my despatch safely into your hands ! "" "" But what about your bad character ? "" "" It was a false accusation , sir ! "" cried West indignantly . "" The man who denounced me was the criminal himself . "" "" Well , you have done your duty so truly that I believe you in preference to him . "" "" But I shall be able to fully clear myself , sir , soon , for this man is a prisoner now with the cavalry brigade . Has that come into the town yet , sir , with the prisoners , guns , and the convoy they captured ? "" "" Hah ! "" cried the Commandant : "" this is news indeed ! Has the brigade captured all you say ? "" "" Yes , sir , "" said West , and he told all that had taken place up to the time of he and Ingleborough being cut off and chased by the Boers . "" We knew nothing of this ! "" said the Commandant . "" We are prisoners ourselves ; but your news gives us hope of a speedy release , for the General is not one to let the grass grow under his feet . "" "" He is not , sir ! "" said West . "" Then you shall bring me and the man who accused me face to face . "" "" The sooner the better , my lad ! "" said the Commandant warmly . "" How soon will he be up , doctor ? "" "" Within a fortnight , I hope , sir ! "" was the reply . "" Then goodbye for the present , my lad ! "" said the Commandant . "" Your long-delayed despatch will send a thrill of hope through all here in Kimberley , for it breathes nothing but determination to hold the Boers at bay . "" "" May I say one word more , sir ? "" said West excitedly . "" What do you think , doctor ? "" "" He has said enough , sir , and if he talks much more we shall have the fever back . Well , perhaps he 'll fret if he does not get something off his mind . "" "" What is it , then ? "" said the Commandant . "" I had a brave comrade to ride with the despatch , sir . "" "" To be sure , yes , I remember . What about him ? Not killed , I hope ? "" "" No , sir , but badly wounded , and lying somewhere here . "" "" Poor fellow ! I must see him . There must be promotion for you both . "" "" If you would see him , sir , and speak to him as you have spoken to me , "" said West , with the weak tears rising to his eyes . "" Of course , yes ! There , shake hands , my lad : you have done splendidly ! Do n't worry about the diamond charge ! I can feel that it was a contemptible lie ! Now , doctor , take me to your other patient . "" "" Ha ! "" sighed West , nestling back on his pillow with a calm look of content in his eyes , which closed directly after for a sleep that lasted ten hours at the least . | Next chapter | | Previous chapter | | Contents | E-Books created from nineteenth century or early twentieth century texts by Athelstane E-Texts ."	Prose/Lyrical
1648	"Greek withdrawal from the eurozone "" Grexit "" redirects here . For the software formerly known as GrexIt , see Hiver ( software ) . The Greek withdrawal from the eurozone is the potential exit of Greece from the eurozone , primarily for the country to deal with its government-debt crisis . This conjecture is often referred to as "" Grexit "" , a portmanteau combining the English words "" Greek "" and "" exit "" . The term "" Graccident "" ( accidental Grexit ) was coined for the case that Greece exited the EU and the euro without intention . These terms first came into use in 2012 and have been revitalised at each of the bailouts made available to Greece since then . Proponents of the proposal argue that leaving the euro and reintroducing the drachma would dramatically boost exports and tourism and while discouraging expensive imports and thereby give the Greek economy the possibility to recover and stand on its own feet . Opponents argue that the proposal would impose excessive hardship on the Greek people , as the short-term effects would be a significant consumption and wealth reduction for the Greek population . This may cause civil unrest in Greece and harm the reputation of the eurozone . Additionally , it could cause Greece to align more with non-EU states . The term ' Grexit ' was coined by the Citigroup economist Ebrahim Rahbari and was introduced by Rahbari and Citigroup's Global Chief Economist Willem H. Buiter on 6 February 2012 . After the announcement of the bailout referendum on 27 June 2015 speculation rose . That day BBC News reported that "" default appears inevitable "" , though it later removed the online statement . On 29 June 2015 it was announced that Greek banks would remain closed all week , cash withdrawals from banks would be limited to € 60 per day , and international money transfers would be limited to urgent pre-approved commercial transfers . The International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) admitted that its forecast about Greek economy was too optimistic : in 2010 it described Greece's first bailout programme as a holding operation that gave the eurozone time to build a firewall to protect other vulnerable members , but in 2012 the unemployment rate of Greece became about 25 percent , compared to IMF's projection of about 15 percent . IMF conceded that it underestimated the damage that austerity programmes would do to the Greek economy , adding that , in terms of Greece's debt , IMF should have considered a debt restructuring earlier . As can be seen from the Figure A , IMF's forecast in the 2010 standby agreement said that the Southern European country would start to grow in real terms after 2011 . But in fact the economy continued to shrink , and Greek real GDP in 2013 was about 76 percent of that in 2008 . In mid-May 2012 , the financial crisis in Greece and the impossibility of forming a new government after elections led to strong speculation that Greece would leave the eurozone shortly . This phenomenon had already become known as "" Grexit "" . Economists who favour this approach to solve the Greek debt crisis argue that a default is unavoidable for Greece in the long term , and that a delay in organising an orderly default ( by lending Greece more money throughout a few more years ) would just wind up hurting EU lenders and neighbouring European countries even more . Fiscal austerity or a euro exit is the alternative to accepting differentiated government bond yields within the Euro Area . If Greece remains in the euro while accepting higher bond yields , reflecting its high government deficit , then high interest rates would dampen demand , raise savings and slow the economy . An improved trade performance and less reliance on foreign capital would be the result . The implementation of Grexit would have to occur "" within days or even hours of the decision being made "" due to the high volatility that would result . It would have to be timed at one of the public holidays in Greece . One US economist has argued that the legal grounds upon which the "" troika , "" composed by the EU Commission , the European Central Bank and the IMF , has pursued the harsh macroeconomic adjustment plans imposed on Greece are shaky , claiming they infringe upon Greece's sovereignty and interfere in the internal affairs of an independent EU nation-state : "" the overt infringements on Greek sovereignty we 're witnessing today , with EU policy makers now double-checking all national data and carefully ' monitoring ' the work of the Greek government sets a dangerous precedent . "" He argues that a withdrawal from the Eurozone would give the Greek government more room for maneuver to conduct public policies propitious for long-term growth and social equity . "" Plan Z "" is the name given to a 2012 plan to enable Greece to withdraw from the eurozone in the event of Greek bank collapse . It was drawn up in absolute secrecy by small teams totalling approximately two dozen officials at the EU Commission ( Brussels ) , the European Central Bank ( Frankfurt ) and the IMF ( Washington ) . Those officials were headed by Jörg Asmussen ( ECB ) , Thomas Wieser ( Euro working group ) , Poul Thomsen ( IMF ) and Marco Buti ( European Commission ) . To prevent premature disclosure no single document was created , no emails were exchanged , and no Greek officials were informed . The plan was based on the 2003 introduction of new dinars into Iraq by the Americans and would have required rebuilding the Greek economy and banking system ab initio , including isolating Greek banks by disconnecting them from the TARGET2 system , closing ATMs , and imposing capital and currency controls . The prospect of Greece leaving the euro and dealing with a devalued drachma prompted many people to start withdrawing their euros from the country's banks . In the nine months to March 2012 deposits in Greek banks had already fallen 13 % to € 160,000,000,000 . A victory for anti-bailout lawmakers in the 17 June 2012 election would likely trigger an even bigger bank run , said Dimitris Mardas , associate professor of economics at the University of Thessaloniiki . Greek authorities , Mardas predicted , would respond by imposing controls on the movement of money for as long as it takes for the panic to subside . Against this plan , a political initiative , the so-called Menoume Europi was founded in 2012 by students in Oxford University , and it spread among Greek students in other European universities . The first demonstration took place in Athens , Syntagma Square in June 2012 in between two major elections that brought to the country political instability and financial insecurity . A Grexit , assuming that it coincided with adoption of a new currency , would require preparation , for example with capacity for banknote stamping or printing a stock of new banknotes . However , information leaking out on such preparations might lead to negative dynamic effects , like bank runs . Conversely , leaving the Eurozone , but retaining the Euro as de facto currency , would avoid the practical issues and relieve the country of the burden of its Eurozone responsibilities . In the event of a new currency being introduced , all banks would close for several days to allow old ( Euro ) banknotes to be stamped to denote that they were now drachmas , and / or a newly printed currency to be distributed to bank branches for distribution to the public when banks reopened . The British money printing company De La Rue was , according to rumours on 18 May 2012 , preparing to print new drachma notes based on old moulds , which De La Rue refused to confirm . The typical time between an order for a new currency being placed and the delivery of the banknotes is about six months . In July 2012 , the Wolfson Economics Prize , a prize for the "" best proposal for a country to leave the European Monetary Union "" , was awarded to a Capital Economics team led by Roger Bootle , for their submission titled "" Leaving the Euro : A Practical Guide . "" The winning proposal argued that a member wishing to exit should introduce a new currency and default on a large part of its debts . The net effect , the proposal claimed , would be positive for growth and prosperity . It also called for keeping the euro for small transactions and for a short period of time after the exit from the eurozone , along with a strict regime of inflation-targeting and tough fiscal rules monitored by "" independent experts "" . The Roger Bootle / Capital Economics plan also suggested that "" key officials "" should meet "" in secret "" one month before the exit is publicly announced , and that eurozone partners and international organisations should be informed "" three days before "" . The judges of the Wolfson Economics Prize found that the winning plan was the "" most credible solution "" to the question of a member state leaving the eurozone . On 29 May 2012 the National Bank of Greece ( not to be confused with the central bank , the Bank of Greece ) warned that "" n exit from the euro would lead to a significant decline in the living standards of Greek citizens . "" According to the announcement , per capita income would fall by 55 % , the new national currency would depreciate by 65 % vis-à-vis the euro , and the recession would deepen to 22 % . Furthermore , unemployment would rise from its current 22 % to 34 % of the work force , and inflation , which was then at 2 % , would soar to 30 % . According to the Greek think-tank Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research ( IOBE ) , a new drachma would lose half or more of its value relative to the euro . This would drive up inflation , and reduce the purchasing power of the average Greek . At the same time , the country's economic output would drop , putting more people out of work where one in five is already unemployed . The prices of imported goods would skyrocket , putting them out of reach for many . Analyst Vangelis Agapitos estimated that inflation under the new drachma would quickly reach 40 to 50 per cent to catch up with the fall in the new currency's value . To stop the falling value of the drachma , interest rates would have to be increased to as high as 30 to 40 per cent , according to Agapitos . People would then be unable to pay off their loans and mortgages and the country's banks would have to be nationalised to stop them from going under , he predicted . IOBE head of research Aggelos Tsakanikas foresaw an increase in crime as a consequence of a Grexit , as people struggled to pay bills . "" We wo n't see tanks in the streets and violence , we wo n't see people starving in the streets , but crime could very well rise "" . The centre-right New Democracy party has accused the leftist SYRIZA of supporting withdrawal from the euro . However , SYRIZA's leader , Alexis Tsipras , has stated that Greece should not leave the eurozone and return to the drachma because "" ... we will have poor people , who have drachmas , and rich people , who will buy everything with euros . "" Public opinion also mostly favours keeping the euro . Of all the political parties which won seats in the parliamentary election in May 2012 , only the Communist KKE expressed support for leaving the euro , and indeed for leaving the European Union . However , its General Secretary , Dimitris Koutsoumpas , pondered : "" The exit from the EU and the euro will be hazardous , a blind alley unless it is combined with a concrete plan , a programme for the economy and society , with a new organization of society , i.e. a socialist society with the socialization of the concentrated means of production , unilateral cancelation of the debt , working class and people's power . "" On 21 August 2015 , 25 MPs from SYRIZA split from the party and formed Popular Unity , which fully supports leaving the euro . In the September 2015 Greek legislative election , the party won only 2.8 % of the popular vote , winning no seats . Both the Greek government and the EU favour Greece staying within the Euro and believe this to be possible . However , some commentators believe an exit is likely . In February 2015 , the former head of the US Federal Reserve , Alan Greenspan , said "" it is just a matter of time "" for Greece to withdraw from the eurozone , and former United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke described it as inevitable . A leaked document reveals that , during informal discussion with one of the European leaders , UK Prime Minister David Cameron suggested that Greece might be better off if it leaves the eurozone . British officials declined to make their comments on the leaked document . Richard Koo , chief economist for Nomura Research Institute , accused IMF and EU of basing their negotiation position on unrealistic assumptions . As Koo pointed out , IMF's argument was that if the austerity programme had been implemented as assumed , no further debt relief would have been needed under 2012 's framework . The EU's argument was that Greece encountered a difficult situation in 2015 because it delayed implementation of structural reforms . Koo said that the argument was highly unrealistic because structural reforms do not work in a short run , adding that the US did not benefit from the Reaganomics structural reforms during Reagan's era . After publishing documents which admit that the southern European country needs debt relief and a moratorium on debt repayment for 30 years , the IMF was only "" slowly beginning to understand "" the Greek economy , said Koo . In January 2015 , speculation about a Greek exit from the eurozone was revived when Michael Fuchs , who is deputy leader of the center-right CDU / CSU faction in the German Bundestag , was quoted on 31 December 2014 : "" The time when we had to rescue Greece is over . There is no more blackmail potential . Greece is not systemically relevant for the euro . "" A following article in the weekly Spiegel citing sources from Wolfgang Schäuble ' s ministry of finance further spurred these speculations . Both German and international media widely interpreted this as the Merkel government tacitly warning Greek voters from voting for SYRIZA in the upcoming legislative election of 25 January 2015 . Germany's largest selling tabloid , the right-wing populist Bild , raised further anger when it compared Greece to an unfair footballer : "" What happens to a footballer who breaks the rules and does a crude foul ? – He leaves the pitch . He is sent off as a punishment . No question . "" The German government's interference in the January 2015 elections in Greece was strongly criticized by leaders of European Parliament groups including Socialists & Democrats ( S & D ) , the liberal ALDE and the Greens / EFA group , when S & D president Gianni Pittella said , "" German right-wing forces trying to act like a sheriff in Greece or any other member states is not only unacceptable but above all wrong . "" It has also been criticized by the German opposition party The Greens ' , with its speaker Simone Peter calling the debate over a Grexit "" highly irresponsible "" . Economists of German Commerzbank said that preventing a Greek exit was still desirable for Germany , since a Greek exit would wipe out billions of euros in European taxpayer money , and "" it would be much easier politically to renegotiate a compromise with Greece , albeit a lame one , and thus maintain the fiction that Greece will pay back its loans at some point in time . "" FTSE "" considers Grexit following the election to be highly unlikely ... "" . On 9 February , UK Prime Minister David Cameron chaired a meeting to discuss any possible ramifications in the event of an exit . According to a Bloomberg report George Osborne said at the meeting of the G-20 finance ministers in Istanbul : "" A Greek exit from the euro would be very difficult for the world economy and potentially very damaging for the European economy . "" In February 2015 , the Russian government stated that it would offer Greece aid but would only provide it in rubles . Kathimerini reported that after 16 February Eurogroup talks Commerzbank AG increased the risk of Greece exiting the euro to 50 % . The expression used by Time for these talks is "" Greece and the Euro Zone dance on the precipice "" . After an emergency meeting of eurozone finance ministers ( 20 February 2015 ) , European leaders agreed to extend Greece's bailout for further four months . By late June 2015 negotiations on a deal had collapsed , and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras called a referendum for 5 July on the revised proposals from the IMF and the EU , which he said that his government would campaign against . The referendum was defeated by a margin of 61 % to 39 % . Eurozone finance ministers have refused to extend the bailout . Questioned on whether the referendum would be a euro-drachma dilemma , Greece's finance minister , Yanis Varoufakis , said that European Treaties make provisions for an exit from the EU but do not make any provisions for an exit from the Eurozone . A referendum as a choice involving exit from the Eurozone would violate EU Treaties and EU Law . A political cartoon of the "" domino effect "" view of a Grexit . Claudia Panseri , head of equity strategy at Société Générale , speculated in late May 2012 that eurozone stocks could plummet up to 50 percent in value if Greece makes a disorderly exit from the eurozone . Bond yields in other European nations could widen 1 percent point to 2 percent points , negatively affecting their ability to service their own sovereign debts . Europe in 2010 accounted for 25 percent of world trade , according to Deutsche Bank . Economic depression within the European economy would ripple worldwide and slow global growth . However , Greece represents just a small fraction – less than 2 per cent – of European gross domestic product ( GDP ) . ... that negotiated withdrawal from the EU would not be legally impossible even prior to the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty , and that unilateral withdrawal would undoubtedly be legally controversial ; that , while permissible , a recently enacted exit clause is , prima facie , not in harmony with the rationale of the European unification project and is otherwise problematic , mainly from a legal perspective ; that a Member State's exit from EMU , without a parallel withdrawal from the EU , would be legally inconceivable ; and that , while perhaps feasible through indirect means , a Member State's expulsion from the EU or EMU , would be legally next to impossible . In the legal literature , the question of whether a country can unilaterally leave the Eurozone without leaving the EU is controversial . Jens Dammann has taken the view that under certain conditions , it is possible for a Member State to end its membership in the Eurozone without leaving the European Union ."	Information/Explanation
1343	"Destroyer From DarkSpace WIKI Destroyers find the middle ground between speed , armor , and weapons . Although less heavily armored than cruisers , destroyers have the maneuverability to hit targets which cruisers and dreads can not without imposing a large risk on themselves . They are the first ships that require a Shipyard to spawn . UGTO ST-22 Gunboat Destroyer While the ST-22s are heavy on particle projection weapons they are still well-balanced light combatants , able to engage smaller targets quite effectively and even pose a threat to capital ships in sufficient numbers . Often seeing prominent duty on the front lines and anti-piracy patrols , these ships are considered a cornerstone of the UGTO fleet and a key step on an officer's track to a more prestigious command . Even senior admirals are known to look back on their time commanding "" Double-deuces "" fondly . ST-23 Missile Destroyer The ST-23s are dedicated light missile platforms , with the bare minimum of close-range defenses and a formidable missile battery . When their crews are n't listening , they are sometimes described as "" missile spam in a tin can "" . With the vital systems and crew quarters crammed in around the missile launchers they can be cramped and unpleasant to serve on , but the satisfaction from sending all that firepower downrange is considered worth it . Role : Missile Boat Weapons : 3 Chemical Beam Lasers and 6 Ion Tracker Missile Launchers Shipyard Requirements : 40,935 Resources | 45 Technology | Metals Rank Requirement : Lieutenant Commander Badges required : Bronze Combat "" Missile Spam in a tin can "" as they are called . The Missile Destroyer may have lost favour with Captains and the Trade Navy in general , however they still have a few dedicated Captains which use them to great effectiveness .. ST-24 Assault Destroyer Employing a tried-and-true design philosophy that has served the UGTO and its predecessors well , the ST-24s are frontal assault ships intended to engage and destroy their targets in close-quarters combat . To this end they are armed with heavy beam arrays and torpedo payloads . Only the most aggressive and ambitious commanders actively seek out a career in these ships , as their lighter armor can not withstand quite as much punishment as most destroyers and the nature of their armament requires them to get into suicidally point-blank range in order to attack . Sometimes good things come in small packages , and this is true for the Assault Destroyer . Its heavy weapons load can easily carve holes in the armour of enemy ships , but beware , its light armour means it can not take the damage that other Destroyers can . ST-28 Picket Destroyer The ST-28 is armed with a comprehensive beam armament to provide excellent point-defense coverage in all directions . Affectionately known by the Trade Navy as "" God's Flashlight "" , it also carries a decent gun armament to help it in combat with other light warships . Unfortunately , the modifications to the hull necessary to carry its heavy armament leaves no room for an auxiliary reactor . As a result it suffers from low power generation at speed , making it unable to keep up with conventional attack Destroyers in a dogfight . Role : Point Defense Weapons : 10 Chemical Beam Lasers and 8 Particle Cannons Shipyard Requirements : 39,900 Resources | 45 Technology | Metals Known as ' Gods Flashlight ' , these Destoryers are armed to the teeth with laser's . So it 's not surprising that its main role is missle defense . The Picket Destroyer also carries a light Cannon layout for dealing with smaller ships . However , due to the amount of weapons it carries , it does not carry a Aux reactor . This leads to energy draining quickly if you are not careful . M-192M Missile Destroyer Role : Missile Boat Weapons : 3 chemical beam lasers and 6 ion tracker missile launchers . Rank Requirement : Lieutenant Commander The Missle Destroyer is more powerful than a Missile frigate , but can have energy problems if not managed properly . Not many use this this ship once they unlock the Missile Cruiser , as it can fire a much greater amount of missiles with little less dodging penality ."	Information/Explanation
300	"There are many , many ways to help the Jerry Green Foundation Trust . Adopting a Jerry Green Dog yourself is wonderful - and also a big responsibility . We hope you will be able to do so . However , if you feel you are not ready for a dog at present due to work commitments or other reasons - you can still help us . DOGS COSTS : DID YOU KNOW THAT YOUR FUNDS ARE NEEDED FOR THE FOLLOWING : Looking after each Dog Costs £ 1.00 - £ 1.50 per day for food and treats depending on size £ 75.00 - £ 115 per spay - depending on size and area £ 50 - £ 75 per castration depending on area We need at least £ 350 . per day for veterinary costs and sometimes a lot more depending on state of dogs taken in . Apart from spreading the word about this great Charity - please ! - check below how you can support us from far and wide . Head Office is JAY GEE SANCTUARY FOR DOGS BROUGHTON , BRIGG NORTH LINCOLNSHIRE DN20 0BJ Contact : Manager Gail Windsor TEL : 01652 653343 FAX : 01652 650886 e-mail : broughton @ jerrygreen . o rg . u k 2006 KENNEL SPONSOR PLAQUE HERE IS ONE OF THE MANY WAYS TO HELP THE DOGS IN OUR MANY SANCTUARIES - GIVE US A RING FOR ADVICE AT ANY TIME . KENNEL SPONSORSHIP Whether or not you can home a Jay Gee rescued dog - perhaps you would sponsor a Kennel for £ 10 a month - a plaque showing your support will be placed on the kennel and you will receive news of the dogs it supports ( see example below ) ADOPT A JAY GEE DOG Visit a Sanctuary near you and see the lovely dogs needing a good home - then consider if you can take on this responsibility - talk to the Resident Manager BEQUESTS IN YOUR WILL Jay Gee depend heavily on bequests - remember us in your will - ask for details of how you can consider doing this FUND RAISING Support Open Days at the various Sanctuaries - by coming along and having a day out and spending your money with us ! or why not join in and help us by running a stall , working behind the scenes etc. Or how about doing an independent fund raising event in your own locality for us MEMBERSHIP OF JGFT Why not become a Member Life Membership is £ 75 : Annual Membership is £ 15 - Ask any branch for details DONATIONS Donations are always gladly received at any time . If you can not make it to one of our Open Days or other "" dos "" - send us a donation please . If you live far away and can not get to a sanctuary - please send us some funds . INFORMATION PACK Everything on this page and more can be found in our INFORMATION PACK . You can send for one by completing your name and email at the SPECIAL PAGE ON THIS SITE - or contact a branch near you . ADVERTISE ONLINE Have a look at our Official WEbsite www . j errygreen . o rg . u k Contact webmaster @ jerrygreen . o rg . u k if you would like to Advertise online"	Promotion
418	"Clinical bottom line In most cases wrist ganglia can safely be left alone , in the knowledge that they will fade away . Reference 1 . FD Burke et al. Primary care referral protocol for wrist ganglia . Postgrad Med J 2003 79 : 329-331 . Bandolier has a wrist ganglion in its midst : it comes and goes ( more or less ) and causes mild to moderate pain from time to time , but only occasionally interferes with life . What can , or should , be done about it ? It is said that in olden days the standard treatment was to hit it with the family bible ( the size of the book is probably more important than the content ) , but in the absence of good quality studies of this approach , Bandolier looked further afield . There are several small randomised controlled trials and observational studies , but no systematic reviews . There is , however , an excellent review from Derby [ 1 ] , which although it does not claim to be systematic , does cover the important studies . Background Ganglia are benign fluid-filled lumps , formed when synovial fluid escapes from a joint and collects in the superficial layers . The ganglion capsule is formed from compressed stroma , with no cellular lining , and may be linked to the underlying joint capsule by a narrow channel acting as a one-way valve . Their cause is unclear , and only a small minority give a history of previous trauma . They are the most common swellings of the wrist , occurring more often in women than men , and in these aged 20 to 50 years . Many untreated ganglia resolve spontaneously , with 50 % of patients "" ganglion free "" at six years . Higher rates of spontaneous resolution ( 70 to 80 % ) are reported for ganglia in children . Despite this , a large number are referred to hand surgeons for advice and treatment . Patients seek advice mainly for cosmetic reasons , or because of concern about malignancy , or pain . Diagnosis in a primary care setting is usually straightforward . Wrist ganglia are site-specific : they overlie the scapholunate ligament on the dorsal surface , or the radiocarpal or scaphotrapezoal joints on the volar ( ventral ) surface , adjacent to the radial artery . Transillumination shows clear fluid , except where the ganglion is very deep or small , or where the skin is dark . Ultrasound is effective for demonstrating ganglia that are too small to palpate . A questionnaire survey of GPs in South Derbyshire showed that 90 % of responders ( 179 GPs ) felt that ganglia were fairly easy to diagnose , although the majority would not undertake any form of invasive treatment in primary care , and many would welcome a checklist to aid referral ( see below ) . GP referral letter for patients with wrist ganglia ( from Burke et al 2003 ) . All boxes in Section A should be ticked , along with the relevant boxes in Section B. I have assessed my patient using the Derby Ganglion Referral protocol and wish to refer the patient because : Section A 1 . The ganglion transilluminates 2 . The patient is aware that most ganglia resolve spontaneously with the passage of time 3 . The patient is aware of the complications of ganglion excision ( 30 % recurrence and 15 % scar tenderness or numbness . Persistent wrist stiffness may also occur ) Section B 1 . The patient's ganglion is painful and restricts work and hobbies 2 . The patient remains concerned by the risk of malignancy , despite aspiration and reassurance 3 . The patient has failed to respond to aspiration of the ganglion 4 . The ganglion is ugly 5 . Other reasons ; please specify : Treatment options Reassurance should be the first therapeutic intervention for most patients ( and all children ) because of the high rate of spontaneous resolution and because it avoids the potential complications of invasive therapy . Aspiration alone can be successful , but recurrence rates are 60 to 70 % . For patients who remain concerned about malignancy , seeing the aspiration fluid can reinforce verbal reassurance , and reduce demand for surgical intervention . Aspiration with steroid injection does not show clear benefits over aspiration alone . The addition of hyaluronidase may reduce recurrence rates . Surgical excision is the most invasive therapy . Recurrence rates as low as 1 % have been reported , but most studies have rates between 14 and 40 % . In addition , 15 to 28 % of patients report scar sensitivity , joint stiffness or distal numbness . Patients should be made aware of these problems before referral for surgery . Arthroscopic excision may reduce recurrence and complication rates . Comment Bandolier is reassured that , in common with most wrist ganglia , this one should be left alone . It is always good to find a condition where the best treatment for most people is the simplest and cheapest : reassure and let nature take its course ."	Instruction
1038	"WHEREAS by the Wimbledon and Putney Commons Act 1871 , power is given to the Wimbledon and Putney Commons Conservators incorporated by and under the said Act to make Bye-laws for the purposes therein stated : Now we , the Wimbledon and Putney Commons Conservators , do hereby repeal all Bye-laws by us heretofore made or constituted , excepting the Election Bye-laws made on the 12 th day of July , 1892 , as amended , and do hereby make and constitute the following Bye-laws , which are to commence and take effect immediately after the same shall have been allowed by the Secretary of State for the Environment and so to continue until the same shall be altered or repealed according to the provisions of the said Act ; and we do by such Bye-laws impose the penalties and further penalties in the same Bye-laws respectively mentioned . BYE - LAWS 1 . In the Construction of these Bye-laws - "" The Commons "" means Wimbledon Common , with Wimbledon Green and Putney Heath included , and Putney Lower Common , as the same respectively are particularly described in the Wimbledon and Putney Commons Act 1871 , and the additions thereto to which are deemed to be part of the Commons by virtue of Section 68 of the said Act . "" The Conservators "" means the Wimbledon and Putney Commons Conservators , incorporated by and under the Wimbledon and Putney Commons Act , 1871 . "" The Act "" means the Wimbledon and Putney Commons Act , 1871 . The term "" unauthorised person "" means any person not for the time being duly authorised by the Conservators in writing , other than a person acting by virtue of the Act or in the exercise of some right reserved to him by the Act . Words importing the masculine gender shall be deemed and taken to include females , and the singular to include the plural , and the plural the singular . "" Person "" includes corporation , aggregate or sole . 2 . No gipsy , hawker of goods ( whether licensed or not ) , beggar , rogue , or vagabond shall frequent or resort to or remain upon the Commons ; and it shall be the duty of any constable , or any officer of the Conservators , to remove or exclude any such person from the Commons , 3 . No unauthorised person shall sell or offer for sale or hire on the Commons any article , commodity , pamphlet , programme or thing . 4 . No unauthorised person shall encamp upon the Commons , or erect or place any hut , platform , booth , tent , clothes-poles , hurdles , or other erection , or cause any obstruction thereon . 5 . No unauthorised person shall catch or trap birds or animals , or set or place any trap , snare , net or other engine adapted for catching any bird or animal , or take the eggs or nests of birds , or shoot or chase birds or animals or allow his dog to chase , injure , or kill any bird or animal upon any part of the Commons , or bring , or put on to the Commons any birds or animals for the purpose f being shot or chased . 6 . No unauthorised person shall turn out on the Commons any cattle , sheep , horse , ass , mule , or other animal ( whether of a commonable nature or not ) , or knowingly permit any cattle , sheep , horse , ass , mule , or other animal to graze or feed , or to stray on to or remain on the Commons . But this Bye-law shall not be deemed to apply to a dog under the control of its owner , or of any other person . 7 . No unauthorised person shall cause to be brought upon the Commons more than four dogs at any one time . A person my be authorised by the Conservators in writing free of charge on application for such number of dogs and period as may be specified in the authorisation . The Conservators may refuse authorisation if they reasonably consider that the number of dogs for which permission is applied is such that other users of the Commons are likely to be intimidated in their use of the Commons . 8 . No unauthorised person shall cut , dig , take , or sell , any turf , sods , bog-earth , gravel , clay , peat , loam , sand , water , ice , or other substance on or from any part of the Commons . 9 . No unauthorised person shall cut , fell , take , or sell , any gorse , heather , timber , or other trees , shrubs , brushwood , furze , fern , rushes , grass , or other plant , or natural product of the Commons on or from any part of the Commons . 10 . No unauthorised personnel shall in anywise injure , damage , or destroy any turf , gorse , furze , heather , fern , grass , timber or other trees , shrubs , brushwood , or other plants upon the Commons , or any part thereof , or dig upon or in , or break or disturb the surface of the Commons , or any part thereof , or of any gravel or sand-pit thereon , or light any fire upon the Commons , or wilfully or negligently place , throw or let fall any lighted or combustible substance , article or thing which may cause , or be likely to cause , damage by fire to any gorse , furze , heather , timber or other trees , shrubs , brushwood , or other plants upon the Commons . 11 . No unauthorised person shall injure , deface , or remove any seat , shelter , direction sign , notice , or notice board , posts , chains , railings , fences or barriers , which may from time to time be erected or placed upon the Commons by or by the authority of the Conservators . 12 . No unauthorised person shall injure or disfigure any fence or other erection or building or any tree on the Commons , by the posting thereon of any bill , placard , or notice or by writing thereon any words or signs . 13 . No unauthorised person shall place , deposit , or scatter , on the Commons , or any part thereof , any rubbish , manure , cinders , road sweepings , soot , dung , litter or other waste substance including paper , bottles or glass or have to retain thereon any timber , firewood , bricks , building materials , or other substance , or resort to the Commons for the purpose of making mortar . 14 . Except upon roads , cycle paths or parking spaces prescribed for the purpose by the Conservators , no unauthorised person shall draw , drive , ride , stand , or place any wagon , van , cart , carriage , truck , bicycle , tricycle , motor car , or other vehicle upon the Commons , including the footpaths or horse rides traversing the same . 15 . No unauthorised person shall allow to remain stationary on the Commons any carriage , motor car , or other vehicle during the period from half an hour after sunset to half an hour before sunrise . 16 . The Conservators may provide horse rides and one or more exercise grounds on such parts of the Commons as they shall think fit . 17 . No person shall lead , ride , drive , exercise or train a horse in a manner likely to endanger he safety or interfere with the comfort of persons frequenting the Commons . 18 . No person shall lead , ride , drive or exercise a horse on any part of the Commons except upon the roads or upon such horse rides or exercise grounds as the Conservators may think fit to provide thereon . 19 . No person shall train a horse on any part of the Commons unless authorised by the Conservators and in conformity with such provisions as the Conservators may prescribe . 20 . No person shall lead a horse on any part of the Commons for the purpose of exercising or training the same at a greater speed than a walking pace unless , authorised to do so by the Conservators and then only on the roads and the said horse rides or exercise grounds . 21 . No person shall ride a horse unless it is properly saddled and bridled or lead a horse unless it is properly bridled on any part of the Commons . 22 . No unauthorised person shall ride a horse on any part of the Commons during the period between half an hour after sunset to half an hour before sunrise . 23 . Bye-laws 17 to 22 inclusive shall apply to mule , donkey or pony as they apply to a horse . 24 . No person shall race a horse or other animal on any part of the Commons . 25 . It shall be lawful for the Conservators from time to time to set apart of appropriate any part of parts of the Commons for the protection of the turf , treed or shrubs thereon , or for walking , or for cricket , football , golf , skating , sliding , or other reasonable recreation ; and no unauthorised person shall drive , ride , or pass over upon horseback the parts so set apart or appropriated of the said Commons ; and no person shall play at cricket , football , golf , or any other game , or skate or slide upon the parts so set apart or appropriated , except on such days , at such times and under such regulations as the Conservators may from time to time prescribe ; and no person shall obstruct or interfere with or annoy any persons who are playing or have made preparations for playing at cricket , football , golf or any other lawful game , or who are skating or sliding upon the parts so set apart r appropriated . And with regard to every other part of the Commons not so set apart or appropriated as aforesaid , no person shall play any game thereon so as to endanger the safety of , or injure , alarm , or annoy any person or animal . 26 . No person shall play at game destructive of , or injurious to , the surface , soil , or natural products of the Commons , except in such places and under such regulations as the Conservators may from time to time prescribe . 27 . No other part of the Commons that the fold tees and greens for the time being set apart by the Conservators , and the spaces intervening in a straight line ( as near as may be ) between the tees and greens respectively , shall be used for playing golf . 28 . Golf may be played on such days as may from time to time be authorised by notice published by the Conservators , but not on Sundays after 2p . m . 29 . No person playing golf shall strike or play any ball near any person walking , riding or driving over the Commons , or otherwise play golf in such a manner as to injure , endanger , alarm or annoy any person traversing or being on the Commons for exercise , recreation or other lawful purpose . 30 . No person playing golf shall require any person crossing the Commons between any tee and any green to move away , or otherwise interfere with any such person . 31 . Every person playing golf shall wear a red coat , or other outer red garment . 32 . Every person playing golf must commence from either the first tee on the Wimbledon side or the first tee on the Windmill side and at no other point and must observe the rules in force upon the course . 33 . Every person playing golf shall be a member , whether for the day or for a longer period , of a club recognised for the purpose of this Bye-law by the Conservators and shall comply with the recognised etiquette and rules of the game and with any special rules laid down by the club . 34 . No person shall ply for hire or solicit employment as a golf caddie upon the Commons unless he shall first have been licensed to do so by the Conservators , and he shall hold such licence subject to such regulations as may from time to time be prescribed by the Conservators . 35 . Every person ( other than a person actually engaged in playing around one of the gold courses on the Commons or his caddie ) who shall find any golf ball on the Commons shall forthwith deliver such ball to any keeper or duly appointed servant or agent of the Conservators , to be dealt with as the Conservators may think fit . 36 . No owner or person in charge of any carriage , saddle-horse , pony , donkey , goat-chaise , motor car , or any other vehicle shall ply for hire upon the Commons , or use the Commons as a standing-pace without the permission in writing of the Conservators , and then only at such places and under such regulations as the Conservators may from time to time prescribe . 37 . No person shall dry or bleach clothes , or other articles , or beat carpets upon the Commons . 38 . No person shall break up or injure the ice on any pond or water on the Commons , or throw or place any stones , earth , or other substance on any such ice so as ti render the same less suitable for skating or sliding . 39 . No unauthorised person shall sweep , shovel , cleanse , or interfere in any way with the ice on any pond or water on the Commons , and no unauthorised person shall deposit any chair , seat , stall , truck , or any other thing on or near the ice on any pons or water on the Commons , for the purpose of acquiring money or profit , or so as to interfere with the use of the ice by the public for purposes of exercise and recreation . 40 . No person shall throw or place in any pond or water on the Commons any earth , wood , glass , crockery , metal , paper , or other rubbish or refuse , or any deleterious , noxious , offensive , or disfiguring substances or thing , or do anything ( not being fair angling ) to destroy or injure any fish in any such pond or water . 41 . No person shall bathe or wash clothes or other articles in , or fish in , any spring , pond or water on the Commons , except under such conditions , in such places , at such times , and in such a manner as the Conservators shall from time to time prescribe ; and no person shall allow his dog to enter any pond or water in which bathing is authorised , or at which a notice by the Conservators prohibiting the swimming of dogs therein is exhibited . 42 . No person shall gamble , bet , or play with cards , dice , or other articles associated with gambling , on the Commons . 43 . No unauthorised person shall : ( a ) fly a model aircraft , however launched or propelled , or ( b ) operate a power driven model ship upon the Commons except at such places and subject to such conditions as the Conservators may prescribe . ( c ) Operate a metal detector or other instrument or other device designed to locate objects on or under the surface of the Commons . subject to such conditions as the Conservators may prescribe . 44 . No unauthorised person shall fire any gun , pistol , or other fire-arm , light any firework , or throw any stone , stick , or other missile , upon the Commons , or commit any other act thereon whereby persons using or frequenting the Commons may be endangered , nor have in his possession on the Commons any fire-arm or ammunition or any air-gun or other weapon operated by compressed air or any catapult or sling or bow or arrow . 45 . No person shall brawl , fight , quarrel , curse or swear , or use any indecent or improper language , or sell , expose to view , or exhibit any indecent or infamous book , print or publication upon the Commons . 46 . No person shall play a musical instrument or operate a radio or television receiver or device for reproducing recorded sound or images on any part of the Commons so as to be or occasion any nuisance or annoyance to any person . 47 . No unauthorised person shall collect , incite , or take part in any gathering or assemblage of persons at any place upon the Commons where it may cause annoyance , inconvenience or obstruction to the lawful use or enjoyment of the Commons by the public for purposes of exercise or recreation . 48 . No alms , donations , contribution or subscriptions of any kind shall be made or given , solicited or collected on the Commons except with the express authority of the Conservators . 49 . No person shall commit any nuisance or act in any indecent or disorderly manner on the Commons , or shall sit , lie , rest or sleep on any sear or on any part of the Commons in an indecent posture , or behave in any manner reasonably likely to offend against public decency . 50 . No person shall collect , incite , or take part in any disorderly gathering or assemblage of persons on the Commons , or do , aid , or abet in any act or thing which may be , or tend to the injury or disfigurement of the Commons , or the hurt , or damage or the persons using or frequenting the Commons for purposes of exercise or recreation , or entitled so to use or frequent the same . 51 . A constable or office of the Conservators who has reasonable cause to believe that a person is offending or has offended against the Act or these Bye-laws may require such a person to state his name and address and such person shall forthwith furnish his name and address to the said constable or officer . 52 . Every person acting or taking any part in the violation of any of the foregoing Bye-laws shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding Level One on the Standard Scale for each offence , and in the case of a continuing offence , every person so continuing such offence shall be liable to a further penalty not exceeding Level One on the Standard Scale for each day , after written notice of the offence , during which the offence continues ; and it shall also be lawful for any constable or any officer of the Conservators to remove or exclude from the Commons any person offending against any of the foregoing Bye-laws . 53 . Nothing in these Bye-laws shall take away , abridge , or prejudicially affect any right , power , or authority , vested in the Conservators otherwise than by these Bye-laws , or in the Metropolitan Police or any authority legally existing , to prevent or punish the offences hereinbefore specified . 54 . The Annual Meeting of the Conservators shall be held on a day in June each year , at such a place within the distance of three quarters of a mile from some part of Wimbledon Common , measured in the manner prescribed by the Act and at such hour as the Conservators may from time to time appoint ."	Legal
1494	Startup Cost : $ 199 . 00 Bcharmed opened its doors to direct sellers in June 2011 and has already managed to capture the hearts of customers and stylists all over the country . Whether you are looking for a part-time venture or a full-time position , Bcharmed has something great in store for you . Join the company as a personal stylist and you can earn attractive commissions , personal volume bonuses , and sponsorship commissions or become a jewelry designer for the company and show everyone just how great your personal designs are . Bcharmed has a place for budding entrepreneurs and designers . Grow with the company and find your own personal success by sharing your passion for stylish jewelry pieces with other women and you will be greatly rewarded . Learn More Here	Promotion
1186	Dear generous donor , The annual XYZ Fundraiser will be held this year on insert date at insert location . In order to ensure the success of this very important fundraiser , we are seeking contributions to help defray the costs associated with the event , so that all funds raised can go directly toward the community . Generous donors like you are the key to our success and make it possible for insert organization's name to provide local individuals and families in need with assistance and critical services . We hope that we can count on your support to help us insert description of organization's mission here . Your donation will be listed in our event program , as well as on the event website age . Please mail your donation to insert address or call insert phone number to pledge your support . You may also donate online at insert web address . We thank you for your time and consideration . Sincerely , Peter Leek , Funraising manager	Promotion
677	We also have a full range of other recycled materials available . Please ask one of our representatives for further details . All prices exclude VAT . You can purchase materials at our Linwood depot ( contact details here ) or we can deliver them to you at a nominal charge . Click here for details of our Packing Tips . Please Note Clients requiring a full packing service will not require any packing materials as our packing service includes all necessary materials .	Promotion
1512	"His company , the nation's largest theater chain , will have nearly 6,000 theater screens equipped with closed-captioning glasses that could transform the theatrical experience for millions of deaf and hard-of-hearing patrons who have shunned going to the cinema because previous aids were too clunky or embarrassing to use . The Knoxville , Tenn. , chain has invested more than $ 10 million in the glasses , which were developed by Sony Electronics Inc. Resembling thick sunglasses , the device uses holographic technology to project closed-caption text that appears inside the lenses , synchronized with the dialogue on the screen . The system also includes headphones connected to a wireless receiver , with separate audio channels , which play dialogue or allow visually impaired users to listen to a narration track of the film . For Smith , the investment is the culmination of a personal journey . His son Ryan is deaf . The 23-year-old college student and aspiring screenwriter played an important role in Regal's decision to order the glasses last year . "" He was our guinea pig , "" said Smith , counsel and chief administrative officer for Regal . "" Every time a new prototype came out , he gave me immediate feedback . "" Until now , movie options for the deaf and hearing impaired have been limited . Initially , studios released few movies with captions . Exhibitors screened them infrequently , or at odd hours . When cinemas introduced closed-caption devices mounted in seats many users found them clunky , conspicuous or incompatible with their hearing aids . Discussion Leave a Reply Links"	News
428	Michael Yardy anchored Sussex 's 355 for eight with an unbeaten hundred which spanned almost the whole of the first day against Kent at Hove . The stoic left-hander came in to face the second ball of this Liverpool Victoria Division One match - after Sussex had lost Richard Montgomerie for nought - and remained an immovable object until stumps . Yardy ( 126 not out ) faced 298 balls and managed 13 fours - his watchfulness a necessary foil to the shot-makers who came and went around him , notable among whom was Murray Goodwin ( 82 ) for his domination of a third-wicket stand of 141 . The hosts , who chose to bat first on a sunny morning , closed day one already in possession of four of the seven points they need from this fixture to usurp Lancashire at the top of the table . But as championship cricket returned following the mid-summer Twenty20 break , they could hardly have got off to a worse start when Montgomerie went lbw pushing forward to Amjad Khan . The Kent fast bowler thought he had struck again three balls later , but this time Yardy survived on nought despite a significant appeal for caught behind . He remained in situ on an even batting surface for another six-and-a-half hours , having been heavily outscored in his 29-over association with Goodwin who hit 11 fours and a six in a fluent 108-ball stay . After South Africa seamer Tyron Henderson had opener Carl Hopkinson lbw padding up for a maiden championship wicket , Goodwin was initially circumspect . But the Zimbabwean gradually took the initiative either side of lunch with a clutch of crisp drives down the ground and good runs square of the wicket as well . With Yardy content to continue at his own unhurried tempo , though , Goodwin eventually paid for his adventure . Two balls after hitting Min Patel for a straight six , he again went down the wicket and was unable to regain his ground when the slow left-armer pushed the ball wider and flatter . Chris Adams and Matthew Prior both went cheaply , the captain lbw offering no stroke to Khan and the wicket-keeper becoming Dwayne Bravo's first championship victim when he plonked a drive straight to short extra-cover . When Luke Wright somehow propelled an abortive leg-side thrash at Patel only as far as short mid-off to go for a duck Sussex had lost four wickets for only 44 runs . Yardy was unperturbed , however and - as the likes of Yasir Arafat and Ollie Rayner took transient responsibility for the run rate in a series of handy late-order stands - he inched into three figures by midway through the evening session . Along the way , there was plenty of lapping and sweeping of spinners Patel and James Tredwell as well as canny placement of pace and the occasional full-blooded pull . Yardy's ritual and plentiful movement in the crease against the seamers resulted only in conspicuous strokelessness for long periods once the ball arrived . But when the loose deliveries came his way they were regularly dispatched as he continued his unfussy accumulation . His innings will rarely have anyone on the edge of their Hove deckchairs . Even so this second hundred of an injury-interrupted season could yet prove a springboard for Sussex as they go in search of championship title number two in the second half of the summer . Liverpool Victoria County Championship Division One Sussex v. Kent Hove : Thursday 13 July 2006 ( day 1 of 4 ) Toss : Sussex won the toss and elected to bat Umpires : V A Holder , R A Kettleborough Sussex First innings RR Montgomerie lbw b Khan 0 CD Hopkinson lbw b Henderson 20 MH Yardy not out 126 MW Goodwin st O ' Brien b Patel 82 * CJ Adams lbw b Khan 3 + MJ Prior c Tredwell b Bravo 15 LJ Wright c Key b Patel 0 Yasir Arafat c Stevens b Patel 31 OP Rayner st O ' Brien b Tredwell 23 RJ Kirtley not out 22 Extras ( b 5 , lb 14 , nb 12 , w 2 ) 33 Total for 8 wkt ( 104 overs ) 355 To bat : JD Lewry Fall of Wickets : 1-0 ( 0 RR Montgomerie ) , 2-39 ( 39 CD Hopkinson , 45 mins ) , 3-180 ( 141 MW Goodwin , 143 mins ) , 4-199 ( 19 CJ Adams , 14 mins ) , 5-223 ( 24 MJ Prior , 25 mins ) , 6-224 ( 1 LJ Wright , 2 mins ) , 7-268 ( 44 Yasir Arafat , 49 mins ) , 8-308 ( 40 OP Rayner , 32 mins ) Bowling A Khan 20 3 57 2 T Henderson 20 4 57 1 DJ Bravo 16 1 74 1 DI Stevens 3 0 14 0 JC Tredwell 16 1 52 1 MM Patel 29 4 82 3 Sussex : R R Montgomerie , C D Hopkinson , M H Yardy , M W Goodwin , C J Adams , M J Prior , O P Rayner , L J Wright , Yasir Arafat , R J Kirtley , J D Lewry Kent : R W T Key , D P Fulton , M van Jaarsveld , M J Walker , D I Stevens , D J Bravo , J C Tredwell , N J O ' Brien , T Henderson , M M Patel , A Khan	News
161	"I have a daughter , Mulan . And when she was eight , last year , she was doing a report for school , or she had some homework about frogs . And we were at this restaurant . And she said , "" So , basically , frogs lay eggs and the eggs turn into tadpoles , and tadpoles turn into frogs . "" And I said , "" Yeah . You know , I 'm not really up on my frog reproduction that much . It 's the females , I think , that lay the eggs . And then the males fertilize them . And then they become tadpoles and frogs . "" And she says , "" What ? Only the females have eggs ? "" And I said , "" Yeah . "" And she goes , "" And what 's this fertilizing ? "" So I kind of said , "" Oh , it 's this extra ingredient , you know , that you need to create a new frog from the mom and dad frog . "" And she said , "" Oh , so is that true for humans too ? "" And I thought , "" Okay , here we go . "" I did n't know it would happen so quick , at eight . I was trying to remember all the guidebooks , and all I could remember was , "" Only answer the question they 're asking . Do n't give any more information . "" So I said , "" Yes . "" And she said , "" And where do , where do human women , where do women lay their eggs ? "" And I said , "" Well , funny you should ask . We have evolved to have our own pond . We have our very own pond inside our bodies . And we lay our eggs there . We do n't have to worry about other eggs or anything like that . It 's our own pond . And that 's how it happens . "" And she goes , "" Then how do they get fertilized ? "" And I said , "" Well , Men , through their penis , they fertilize the eggs by the sperm coming out . And you go through the woman's vagina . "" And so we 're just eating , and her jaw just drops , and she goes , "" Mom ! Like where you go to the bathroom ? "" And I said , "" I know . I know . "" ( Laughter ) That 's how we evolved . It does seem odd . It is a little bit like having a waste treatment plant right next to an amusement park . Bad zoning . But ... She 's like , "" What ? "" And she goes , "" But Mom , but men and women ca n ' t ever see each other naked , Mom . So how could that ever happen ? "" And then I put my Margaret Mead hat on . "" Human males and females develop a special bond , and when they 're much older , much , much older than you , and they have a very special feeling , then they can be naked together . "" And she said , "" Mom , have you done this before ? "" And I said , "" Yes . "" And she said , "" But Mom , you ca n ' t have kids . "" Because she knows that I adopted her and that I ca n ' t have kids . And I said , "" Yes . "" And she said , "" Well , you do n't have to do that again . "" And then I said , "" ... "" And then she said , "" But how does it happen when a man and woman are together ? Like , how do they know that 's the time ? Mom , does the man just say , ' Is now the time to take off my pants ? ' "" ( Laughter ) And I said , "" Yes . "" ( Laughter ) "" That is exactly right . That 's exactly how it happens . "" So then we 're driving home , and she 's looking out the window , and she goes , "" Mom , what if two people just saw each other on the street , like a man and a woman , and they just started doing it . Would that ever happen ? "" And I said , "" Oh , no . Humans are so private . Oh no . "" And then she goes , "" What if there was like a party . And there was just like a whole bunch of girls and a whole bunch of boys . And there was a bunch of men and women and they just started doing it , Mom ? Would that ever happen ? "" And I said , "" Oh , no , no . That 's not how we do it . "" Then we got home and we see the cat . And she goes , "" Mom , how do cats do it ? "" And I go , "" Oh , it 's the same . It 's basically the same . "" And then she got all caught up in the legs . "" But how would the legs go , Mom . I do n't understand the legs . "" She goes , "" Mom , everyone ca n ' t do the splits . "" And I go , "" I know , but the legs ... "" I 'm like , "" The legs get worked out . "" And she goes , "" But I just ca n ' t understand it . "" So I go , "" You know , why do we go on the Internet , and maybe we can see ... "" like on Wikipedia . So we go online , and we put in cats mating . And , unfortunately , on Youtube , there 's many cats mating videos . And we watched them , and I 'm so thankful , because she 's just like , "" Wow ! This is so amazing . "" She goes , "" What about dogs ? "" So we put in dogs mating , and , you know , we 're watching it , and she 's totally absorbed . And then she goes , "" Mom , do you think they would have on the Internet , any humans mating ? "" ( Laughter ) And then I realized that I had taken my little eight year-old 's hand , and taken her right into Internet porn . And I looked into this trusting , loving face , and I said , "" Oh , no . That would never happen . "" Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause ) Thank you . I 'm so happy to be here . </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
1243	"Search Results : "" girl "" Anna loves Tennis . She is beautiful tennis player . She is so fashionable that deserves to dress up like fashion tennis girl . So please change her clothes as much fashionable you can . Mouse button to select styles and colors . There 's nothing better than pulling piping hot chocolate brownies out of the oven , unless of course , they are filled with three different types of chocolate ! White chocolate , milk chocolate , and dark chocolate ! It 's all here in this incredibly delicious d Sally's got a good personality . She 's the fun girl that everyone wants to hang out with ! So let 's hang out on the beach in some fun strapless summer dresses and sip on fruity smoothie drinks on the side ! This fairytale princess is waiting for a handsome knight to save her from her faerie enchantment . But only the bravest warrior , a true chivalrous knight can break the spell that prevents her from retaking her throne from the bandit usurpers ! This magical princess controls her personal castle in the sky . And with hundreds of fairies and unicorns at her beck and call , she is constantly developing incredible eyeshadow , makeup , and tiaras for her already growing vanity chest ! Play Basketball Kissing where after winning the basketball match he is trying to kiss the cheerleader who is his girl friend but photographer and other player are also there and your job is to have an eye on them and let him kiss his loveable girl friend This cute choir singer has been in the church choir for years . She learned how to exercise her voice around veteran choir members , and they 've helped find her leading roles in the hymns at church until she 's old enough to try out for the local high school"	Promotion
251	The bungalow is within walking distance of the town centre and its amenities , and is also on the bus route to town . Redditch is a new town , 15 miles south of Birmingham , with public transport links to other towns in the area and good access to the motorway system . The Bungalow Easemore Road is a Registered Care home with sleep-in facilities . It is set back from the road in large gardens shared with another house . There are four single bedrooms , each with a TV aerial point . As a bungalow it can accommodate people with some mobility difficulties , although it is not suitable for people who need to use a wheelchair indoors . There is a shower room with a toilet , and a large bathroom with a toilet . There is a communal lounge , large dining room and utility room . The people who live at Easemore Road The bungalow is suitable for people with moderate to severe learning disabilities requiring 24-hour support but not on a one-to-one basis . Currently Easemore Road is home to four men aged from early thirties to early sixties . There is often the opportunity to take part in leisure activities . The staff who support the people living at Easemore Road The staff team consists of a Head of Service , a Senior Support Worker and four and a half full-time equivalent Support Workers . The staffing ration is 2 : 1 . There is always one sleep-in member of staff overnight , plus an emergency on call member of staff . Contact Details Area Manager : Margaret Jukes Contact Number : 01527 524722	Promotion
364	"ITV , National Heart Forum , NatMags , The Independent , KPMG , Thomson Intermedia , Benchmark Capital , Cobra Beer ITV is believed to be close to appointing its first director of advertising strategy . Nicky Buss , UK client services director of WPP customer marketing giant Research International , has been linked to the role . She was global strategic planning director of WPP's Red Cell Network . The National Heart Forum , an alliance of health , medical and consumer organisations , yesterday ( Monday ) said it was preparing an application for a judicial review against the broadcast regulator , Ofcom , claiming its crackdown on junk food advertising does not go far enough . The heart charity alleges that it is unlawful and unfair of the regulator to exclude bringing in a 9pm watershed for junk food advertising in its ongoing consultation from "" full and fair consideration "" . NatMags has appointed Niall Hogan , former sales director at Emap Interactive , as its first digital ad director . Hogan joins ahead of the launch of websites for Country Living , Cosmopolitan and Good Housekeeping and six category-branded websites . The Independent's sales for the 16 May issue , guest edited by Bono , were up by more than 30 % , producing its best sale since 9 / 11 , according to editor-in-chief Simon Kelner . The paper has also partnered with Renault and Rough Guide travelbooks to produce a guide to Mediterranean festivals , which it will give away on Saturday . Spending on digital and direct media rose by 22 % year on year in the first three months of 2006 , with the two media now accounting for a quarter of all ad media spend , a study by KPMG and Thomson Intermedia claims . Though traditional media spend fell year on year for the first time in three years , overall ad spend was up 3.2 % . Benchmark Capital , the venture capitalist behind Irish pay-TV group Setanta , eBay , Betfair and MySQL , has invested £ 8m in social networking site Bebo . c om . The site , a rival to News Corp's MySpace . c om , will use the funding to expand the US team and open a London office . Cobra Beer is to target female beer drinkers with a £ 1m integrated ad campaign for its Cobra Lower Cal brand . The campaign , which breaks on 29 May , will run in magazines including Grazia , OK ! and Glamour as well as supermarket titles and websites ."	News
1519	"Tips Today is National Boss's Day ; a secular holiday celebrated around the world on Oct. 16 each year . It reportedly began in 1958 when a woman named Patricia Bays Haroski registered the holiday with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce because she wanted to designate a day for employees to show appreciation for their managers . Haroski chose Oct. 16 because it was her father's birthday , and she working for him at the time as a secretary for the State Farm Insurance Company in Illinois . In 1962 , four years after registering the holiday , the Illinois Governor officially proclaimed the day , which is now observed in the U.S. and countries such as Canada , Australia and India . Millions of appreciative workers will take full advantage of the day ; thanking their boss ' for their support , encouragement and guidance throughout the year . Others , however , have little to celebrate today . These are typically employees who have terrible relationships with their managers . If you fall into that second group of workers , National Boss's Day is the perfect opportunity to reflect on your employee-employer relationship , and think about ways to improve it . "" It 's very important to have a strong , or otherwise healthy relationship with your boss for a variety of reasons , "" says Teri Hockett , chief executive of What 's For Work ? , a career site for women . "" First , your boss has a tremendous amount of influence over workplace stress , whether real or perceived . They can make the workplace exciting and something to look forward to each day , or a place that you dread visiting . In short , your health is at stake , "" she says . "" Second , they typically hold the key to your advancement within the company , or sometimes outside as well . Without a good relationship , they may not speak highly of you or consider nominating you to other positions , departments or companies , regardless of your performance . And third , having a good relationship with your boss just makes sense . Work consumes most of your time usually , and having good relationships will make things more enjoyable and lead to opportunities . "" Joyce Maroney , senior director of customer experience and services marketing for Kronos , a Mass. - based workforce management software and services company , says the boss-employee relationship is much like others we need to manage in our lives . "" We get out of them what we put into them – as long as both parties are committed to the relationship , "" she says . "" If both parties are n't clear in communicating their expectations and giving feedback when expectations are n't met , little issues can snowball to the point the relationship is no longer viable . "" Maroney says a recent Kronos survey revealed that 69 % of employees believe their managers set a good example in the way they behave and 92 % of those employees also believe their managers adhere to those values on a regular basis . "" But setting a good example for behavior does n't always translate into a strong relationship . Employees might not get the direct and constructive performance feedback they need to elevate their career – or the boss is n't all that invested so he or she does n't push the team to consistently achieve and grow . "" Sandy Mazur , a division president at Spherion , a recruiting and staffing firm , agrees . "" In order to grow , learn and advance in their careers , employees need to be on the same page with their supervisors about their goals , objectives and career path , "" she says . "" And employees should start this dialogue so that they can open the lines of communication with their supervisor and engage them in this process . "" According to a recent Spherion "" Emerging Workforce "" study , most workers rate their relationship with their supervisor as good , great or excellent ( 84 % ) . "" However , for the small amount of people that rate their relationship as weak , it could be related to trust . Strong relationships are based on trust from both parties , and it takes an open line of communication from both the employee and the supervisor to make that happen . "" Other reasons some employees have such weak relationships with their boss ? Andy Teach , a corporate veteran and author of From Graduation to Corporation , says sometimes it 's simply due to the "" very nature of the boss-employee dynamic . "" "" If an employee has someone over them who is constantly telling them what to do and in many instances , how to do it , this can easily cause friction and resentment , "" he says . "" An employee is always being held accountable by their supervisor and this just adds stress to the employee 's already stressful work day . In addition , there are many employees who are jealous of their boss and perhaps feel that they , not the boss , should be the one in charge . Again , this causes resentment toward the one person at work who has the most control over your career . "" But Teach says it 's absolutely imperative to have a great work relationship with your boss "" because they control your destiny . "" "" You do n't have to love your boss but you need to be able to work well with them . One of the main reasons employees leave their job is because of their boss . A troubled relationship with your boss can negatively affect your morale , your productivity , your happiness , and of course , your career . A positive relationship can improve your morale , productivity and happiness which could lead to more career success in the form of promotions , raises and higher self-esteem . "" Maroney says a "" strong relationship "" may mean different things to different people , but what she has seen again and again is that "" it 's important to manage your relationship with your boss if you expect to prosper in a job . "" Here 's how to strengthen your relationship with your boss : Put yourself in your boss's shoes . Figure out the challenges your boss will encounter that day and be prepared to offer solutions , Mazur suggests . "" Anticipate the questions that your supervisor may ask about your work or a project and have thoughtful answers or next steps for them to take . Thinking ahead can really show that you 're an invaluable team member . "" Teach says it 's easy to be resentful of your boss , especially if they treat you a certain way , "" but they have a job to do , just like you , "" he explains . "" There 's a lot about their job that you do n't know about or see , so do n't assume that they 're out to get you , "" he adds . "" Sometimes they act a certain way for a reason – perhaps their boss is putting a lot of pressure on them – so try to be understanding . "" Show value . "" They hired you for a reason , so make sure that you 're adding value to the organization and / or position , "" Hockett says . "" Bosses want employees not only to agree with them , but also be willing to speak up about the realities and challenges in the business that need to be addressed . Be the person that speaks with facts , confidence and reasonable suggestions that produce results . This builds your boss's confidence in you . "" How did you choose your profession ? Did you pick a job that you thought would be easy ? Or lucrative ? Or glamorous ? Or , did you pursue a career related to your interests and hobbies ? Chances are , you did n't base your decision on the latter – but you probably should have . Why ? Hobbies are the things you choose to do ; activities that you 're probably good at and enjoy doing , and these personal expressions "" will give us unedited clues as to our real desires and interests , "" says Joyce K. Reynolds , an expert business coach . She says looking for career clues in one's choice of hobbies , interests and vocational activities will provide the most fruitful direction for highly successful career choices . "" In fact , the earlier we are able to observe our personal tastes as they show up in hobbies and outside activities , the more powerful a lead these things will provide in steering us to meaningful professional and career choices . "" Career coach Phyllis Mufson agrees . "" A hobby you really enjoy can be an important part of choosing a career because your hobby is a window into what you love and value and do most naturally , which are all important components of a career where you 'll flourish . "" While there can be tremendous joy in earning income from doing something that you might happily do for free , there are also practical benefits . "" It can be easier to segue into a hobby-related career since you may already have many of the skills , experiences and personal connections needed for success , "" says Nancy Collamer , a career coach at MyLifestyleCareer.com . But you need to spend time seriously evaluating whether turning your hobby into your work is a good idea , she adds . "" Sometimes it 's best to leave the two as separate and distinct parts of your life . "" Here are a few ways to monetize a hobby : Teach others to do what you love . Teach piano lessons , offer cooking classes , or teach another language , if those are your passions . You can do this by teaching through a college or continuing education program , by creating your own classes , or by creating your own webinars or tele-seminar series online , Collamer says . Sell / import / invent / craft a product or accessory for enthusiasts in your hobby . For example , if you are a wine enthusiast , you might import hand-blown wine glasses from a different country , or invent a unique wine refrigeration device , or develop a line of fun wine-themed T-shirts . "" Hobbyists tend to be very enthusiastic , passionate and willing to spend money on items related to their hobby , "" Collamer says . "" Just think of what baseball enthusiasts are willing to pay for World Series tickets . "" Teach the business of the hobby . "" I actually talk about this in my book ( Second-Act Careers : 50 + Ways to Profit From Your Passions During Semi-Retirement ) , using an example of a man who used to work for Microsoft in marketing , but his hobby was magic , and now he teaches marketing to magicians , "" Collamer says . So let 's say your background is in publishing , but you love cooking , you could specialize in teaching people in the food industry how to get their cookbooks published . "" I have another example in my book of a woman who teaches people how to make a living importing goods from Ecuador , for people who love to travel and / or shop . "" Speak or write about your hobby . Hobby related how-to topics , historical perspectives , and compelling stories , are all of interest to enthusiasts , Collamer says . And you could get paid to do it . Create a tour or performance series around what you love . "" The other day I met a woman who bills herself as a ' Founding Fathers Fanatic ' and she performs at schools , in character , to teach students about the Founding Fathers , "" Collamer says . "" Another example of this is Tony Mula , who turned his love of pizza and Brooklyn into the highly successful ' A Slice of Brooklyn ' pizza tours , "" she adds . "" I also know of a bike enthusiast who runs bike tours in California . "" Appraise , repair or fix items related to what you love . Most hobbies have "" stuff "" connected to them , and sometimes , that stuff needs to be fixed by a skilled and knowledgeable person . "" You could fix computers , appraise collectibles , repair bicycles , source missing parts for highly unusual items , and so on , "" Collamer says . "" The next time you find yourself confused as to how to generate income from your hobbies , search out the most successful entrepreneurs in your area of interest and study their business models and revenue streams , "" Collamer suggests . "" Ask yourself : Is their income coming from consulting services , videos , accessories , events , classes or product sales ? What is their mix of products and services ? What is their pricing strategy ? "" In doing this , you 'll discover proven models for monetizing your hobbies , as well as helpful information about how to price your own services and products . Mufson , who has interests outside of career coaching , says she managed to turn a hobby into a lucrative part-time gig . "" I personally turned my hobby of creating gemstone jewelry into a side-line business , "" she explains . "" Jewelry making is an expensive hobby and early on I decided to make it pay for itself . Since then I have developed two online stores and a relationship with a jewelry gallery that sells most of my work . "" Not everyone is going to wind up a star by following a well-loved hobby into a professional setting , Reynolds says . "" We ca n't all be Olympic skaters , NBA top scorers or real estate moguls . However , it can be taken as a promise that , if we follow the lines and design of our natural interests and loves , we will give ourselves the very best chance to grow into the most successful human beings we can be . It will also ensure that we have more days we love because we 're doing the things that most interest us , nourish us , and give us expression , "" she concludes . There are a few problems with the Tourism Authority of Thailand 4-page brochure mainly that they neglected to also publish this document in the Thai language since most of the offenses listed are committed by Thais and not by foreigners . The problem with the Tourism Authority of Thailand brochure for Chinese and Western tourists is that it has errors , assumes Thailand is Singapore , and only expects tourists to obey the rules – not local Thais . Right off the bat , the Tourism Authority of Thailand pamphlet tells us that smoking is allowed in all of Thailand's International Airports . The International Airports in Thailand have designated smoking areas – outside . At Suvarnabhumi International Airport in Bangkok , one has to cross the street and go to a designated area or face a 2,000 baht fine . I guess the Tourism Authority of Thailand is trying to help the cigarette-butt police increase their daily take . What the Tourism Authority of Thailand fails to mention is that if you get into a confrontation with a Thai , he will most likely get 10 of his buddies to come and beat the shit out of you . Failing that , he will pull a gun and shoot you . Tourism Authority of Thailand Counterfeits The Tourism Authority of Thailand also does n't tell you that you can buy your pornographic materials right out in the open on Sukhumvit Road . Dildos , XXX videos , and fake / real Viagra are readily available . All sorts of copyright material are also available . Tourism Authority of Thailand Loud Yes , Thais are soft-spoken except when they are drunk . They can also be quite noisy if handed a microphone especially when butchering karaoke songs . Tourism Authority of Thailand Proper Attire The Tourism Authority of Thailand also fails to point out , like Tom at Isaan-Live has done numerous times , that the biggest violators are Thai women . Tourism Authority of Thailand Spitting Yes , it is disgusting . For some reason the Tourism Authority of Thailand thinks this is Singapore where people get caned for spitting . But , no this is Thailand where at times it seems like the national pastime is spitting – and no one gets caned . Tourism Authority of Thailand Driving Safety I saved the best for last . The Tourism Authority of Thailand fails to mention that Thais are some of the worst drivers in the world , traffic laws are not followed , and the Thai Police selectively enforce laws . But , maybe since Chiang Mai targets foreign drivers these silly rules should be followed by tourists – after all – they are not followed by most Thais . Let 's take a look at them one by one : Drive safely in Thailand and strictly follow all traffic regulations . Yes , do n't do like Thai drivers and disobey every driving rule there is . Thailand adopts left-hand drive system . Always keep to the left lane when driving in Thailand . Actually , it should be that slower moving traffic stick to the left lane and only pass on the right . The Tourism Authority of Thailand does n't tell you that you can drive like a Thai and cross double yellow lines , pass on a hill , and drive at any speed you want . Always beware of bicycles and motorbikes as there are many on the roads . The Tourism Authority of Thailand fails to warn foreigners that Thais like to drive their motorcycles on the wrong side of the road and also like to drive on the sidewalks / footpaths . To prevent accidents , do not stop your car abruptly in the middle of a road for any reason . Unless you are Thai – then it is OK . If you are Thai , you can also stop in front of 7-11 or an ATM machine and block one lane of traffic as long as you put on one turn signal indicator . Please study the directions before each journey to make sure you know your way . And , do n't use any guidebooks from the Tourism Authority of Thailand unless you plan on getting lost . Always stop at zebra crossings to allow all pedestrians to cross the road first . The Tourism Authority of Thailand should warn people that zebra crossings / pedestrian crossing sare simply lines painted on the road that are ignored by all Thai drivers . If you stop for pedestrians in the crossing , be prepared to be rammed from the back . The rest of the list from the Tourism Authority of Thailand only pertain to those that bring vehicles into Thailand from foreign countries so it is of no value at all for Chinese / Western tourists and will most likely just confuse people . This just goes to show that the Tourism Authority of Thailand is clueless when it comes to foreign tourists and needs to focus some of its energy on cleaning up Thailand or tourists will stop visiting . One of the most important hiring criteria for many companies is the ability to work as a team player – yet , so many of us have colleagues who do n't play well with others . "" If you have one bad apple in the bunch , it can really hurt the morale and enthusiasm of an entire department , "" says Andy Teach , author of From Graduation to Corporation , and host of the YouTube channel FromGradToCorp . "" A department , or company , that works well together , has the most success together . When you enjoy working with your colleagues and look forward to interacting with them , everyone benefits . "" Working with other team members whom you have a great work relationship with can actually make work fun , he says . "" Morale is high , which leads to better productivity , which leads to better results . "" Skip Weisman , a leadership and workplace communication expert , agrees . "" A high-morale work environment will always produce more than a low-morale work environment . "" When people care about the people they work with , things get done faster , he says . "" People will go the extra mile ; they will take ownership of a job , a decision or problem and work through it without feeling like they have to go up the chain to get things done . "" Another benefit of colleagues working well together : Information flows more freely , says David Parnell , a legal consultant , communication coach and author . "" In addition , the group 's well being and success become more of a priority ; patience , generosity and a gravitation toward interaction grows ; and good moods and dynamic information beget better moods and even more dynamic information , "" he says . "" All of this conspires to create a more balanced , functional , aggressive and successful company . "" So , what happens when colleagues do n't work well together ? Parnell says time and cognitive bandwidth is wasted "" exercising restraint , measuring words and otherwise forcing hands to play nicely in the sandbox . "" The outcome is shoddy workmanship , pushed or missed deadlines and severe lacerations to the company culture or your group's sub-culture . Deborah Shane , a career author , writer , speaker and professional branding and social media marketing strategist , adds that a bad workplace relationship creates negative energy , which can affect everyone on the team , as well as customers or clients . It can also cause employee turnover , which "" interrupts building and creating a strong , unified team . "" Finally , she says , "" conflict fosters cliques and factions within a team that always works against it . "" Make teamwork a priority by making it part of the performance management system . This begins with performance expectations when someone joins the organization , Weisman says . "" I was speaking with a prospective client last summer who was complaining about this very thing – that their people were not working well together – so I asked her , ' Well , do you assess their contribution to teamwork as part of your annual performance review process ? ' She looked at me like a deer in headlights and responded as if it was a master stroke of genius . "" If you do n't measure it and give people the expectation at the very beginning of their role with the organization , it will not be seen as priority . Pinpoint the issue . "" Explore your feelings and behavior toward your colleagues , "" says Parnell . "" Social and professional relationships are inextricably symbiotic and interactive , and much of the communication that occurs is both subconscious and reactive . "" If your colleagues seem to be difficult , they may actually be reacting to the signals you are giving off – whether consciously or unconsciously . While this might be a bitter pill to swallow , you may be the very root of the problem and the first step toward recovery is discovering this . Think you deserve a bigger paycheck ? Want to ask for a raise but not sure you 'll get one ? Plenty of employees are finding themselves in this predicament , because many recession-wary companies that stopped handing out raises during the economic downturn are still hesitant to open their wallets today . But career experts say that despite all the penny-pinching , a salary hike is n't necessarily out of the question – so you might as well ask . "" Clearly most companies today are not looking for opportunities to hand out money , "" says Lynn Taylor , a national workplace expert and author of Tame Your Terrible Office Tyrant ; How to Manage Childish Boss Behavior and Thrive in Your Job . "" During the boom era of the late '90s when talent was scarce and retention was top of mind , nearly the opposite was true . While the corporate landscape is different now , you should n't sit idly and feel dissatisfied in silence . If you have supportive evidence your salary is at sub-market levels , you should speak up . "" She says it is possible to get a raise , even in an environment where money is n't exactly falling from trees . "" Your organization has invested time and money in you . Savvy bosses understand that unhappy and underpaid employees are under-performing employees , which helps no one . It 's a drain on their time to have to re-hire and train a replacement that fits the corporate culture . So if you have a legitimate request , you do have a certain amount of leverage . "" Connie Thanasoulis-Cerrachio , a career expert and co-founder of SixFigureStart , a career coaching firm , agrees . "" I think it 's always a good idea to ask for a raise , even when employers are not handing them out , "" she says . "" But only when that discussion is tied to performance . "" Employees should keep careful records of how their actions helped the bottom line of their company , or helped other team members improve the bottom line of the company , she suggests . "" No one is going to hold your hand and remind you of the great things you did all year , "" she adds , so keep track and share them with your manager at the appropriate time . Asking for a pay raise is a delicate conversation and something you should not do without careful planning , says Dr. Katharine Brooks , executive director of the office of personal and career development at Wake Forest University and author of You Majored in What ? Mapping Your Path from Chaos to Career . "" Being prepared can help you overcome your hesitation . "" Aside from keeping track of your accomplishments and contributions , you can plan by thinking about things like timing . "" This is key , "" Brooks says . "" If others are being laid off , or there has been a cutback in revenues to the organization , that is generally not the time to ask for a raise . Wait for things to settle , then assess the situation . Perhaps you are now doing the work of two former workers , or you have brought in more revenue than in previous years . Wait until you can approach from a positive rather than negative stance . "" Know your value . Do the proper research to figure out what you 're worth , even if it means going on interviews or using resources like Getraised.com , Payscale.com , or Glassdoor.com , says Thanasoulis-Cerrachio . If you find out you 're underpaid , you can use that to negotiate an increase . "" Look at salary surveys , cost-of-living comparisons , and rates of compensation within your organization , if possible , "" Brooks says . "" If you are aware that colleagues are earning more than you , tread carefully . You do n't want to put others in a negative light or violate a corporate written or unwritten rule about knowing what others earn . Simply present what the field generally pays , and why you believe your performance is at the top of your field . "" Know the number . Once you do the research , figure out what you think is a fair amount of money to ask for , says Thanasoulis-Cerrachio . "" Have that number in your head when you ask for a raise . "" Schedule a meeting . Find a time that works best for you and your boss , Thanasoulis-Cerrachio says . Taylor adds , "" Give your boss a head 's up that you want to chat about your career growth so that you both have ample time . "" Practice salary negotiations . This can be a difficult or awkward conversation . Practice with a friend who can be a tough negotiator , Thanasoulis-Cerrachio says . We all have our moments of "" multitask overload "" – especially managers . But working with a perpetually disorganized boss can be exasperating and even detrimental to your workplace productivity . "" You may feel like you 're spinning your wheels , "" says Lynn Taylor , a national workplace expert and author of Tame Your Terrible Office Tyrant ; How to Manage Childish Boss Behavior and Thrive in Your Job . "" There can be many false starts if your boss has n't thought through a project or the resources required for it ; if he has n't set priorities well ; or if he ca n't get back to you because everything appears to be in disarray . And if you follow orders based on a disorganized initiative , a chaotic domino effect can occur within your department . "" This work style can negatively affect your sense of accomplishment and performance , she adds . "" And it can bring down an entire team . "" Sara Sutton Fell , CEO and founder of FlexJobs , agrees . "" It can be extremely frustrating to deal with a disorganized boss , because their disorganization often trickles ( or even pours ) down on you . It can hurt team morale , and it reflects poorly on everyone . "" When the boss is disorganized , it can lead to partial project requests , misinformation , missed or wrong deadlines and "" general messiness , "" she says . "" All of those can cause balls to be dropped , and then ensuing stress and rush to pick them back up again . "" Katharine Brooks , executive director of the office of personal and career development at Wake Forest University and author of You Majored in What ? Mapping Your Path from Chaos to Career , says the word "" disorganized "" can mean several things . "" It could be a failure to see the big picture and approach issues strategically ; difficulty remembering important deadlines , meetings , projects , etc. ; or failure to set goals and prioritize what is important for the office . "" Productivity coach Casey Moore concurs . She says in the workplace , "" disorganization "" takes many forms . One , she says , is what she calls "" the searcher . "" "" This supervisor ca n't find the objects or information she needs when she needs them . She frequently wastes time looking for keys , emails , digital files , etc. – and she wastes money replacing lost items and wastes energy ( and more time ) re-creating documents or other work products . She usually has a cluttered desk and email inbox , "" explains Moore , the author of Stop Organizing , Start Producing . "" You and your colleagues will likely be dragged into time-consuming searches or scrambles to re-do or replace what is n't found . You may have to exercise caution about what you give your supervisor because it may be lost and / or forgotten . "" "" The improviser "" is another type of disorganized boss . This supervisor does n't plan ahead . He may be adept at reacting and improvising on the spot , but eventually you realizes he 's covering his tracks , not blazing a trail , Moore says . "" He requires his team to reinvent the wheel over and over because there 's no time to fine-tune processes when you 're always behind the curve . "" If this is your boss , you and your colleagues likely perform too many fire drills : rushing to meet deadlines , struggling to fix easily-preventable mistakes , and missing out on opportunities that require a modicum of foresight . Moore says the third type of disorganized supervisor is "" the constrictor . "" This boss does n't delegate , she says . "" Her reasons vary from altruist ( ' protecting ' her team ) to arrogant ( only she can do it ' right ' ) ; from fearful ( of letting go ) to flummoxed ( unable to identify exactly how others could help ) . The result , however , is always the same : a bottleneck that slows everyone . "" This type of boss's subordinates probably feel frustrated by her unresponsiveness , the lack of challenging goals and the subtle implication that she does n't think you they handle the work , Moore adds . Do you have a coworker who thinks he knows everything ? He believes he 's the go-to person ; the one with the special connections and authority . He acts as though he 's been everywhere and has experienced everything . If there 's a problem , he has the solution ; if there 's a question , he has the answer . He is n't open to new ideas or collaborating – and he has strong opinions , which he delivers in an obnoxious manner . Chances are , you 've never , ever heard him utter the words "" I do n't know . "" "" They tend to monopolize conversations , dismiss input from others and make decisions without first considering all the facts , "" she says . "" A ' my way or the highway ' attitude often leads to unhappy coworkers , disgruntled clients , and an unhappy work environment . "" Andrew G. Rosen , founder and editor of career advice blog Jobacle.com , says it can be extremely difficult to work with a know-it-all because "" they are generally poor listeners , often thinking about what they are going to say next rather than hear what you are saying . Their mindset makes it hard to get through to them that their idea or solution might not be the best one . They have often already formed an opinion and will not be swayed . "" Michael Kerr , an international business speaker , president of Humor at Work , and author of The Humor Advantage : Why Some Businesses are Laughing all the Way to the Bank ( Dec. 2013 ) , agrees . "" Know-it-alls can be extremely frustrating to work with for a number of reasons , "" he says . "" One , they tend to speak more than they listen , so people can be left with the feeling that their opinions or ideas have n't been given a proper hearing . They can often be close-minded as well – which means they can become a severe impediment to the creative process by blocking any idea other than their own . They simply know an idea either will or wo n't work . Some know-it-alls can come across as opinionated , aggressive , brusque and even loud – all traits that wo n't win over a lot of people at the office – and in fact can be easily construed as bullying behavior . "" Here are eight tips for dealing with a know-it-all coworker : 1 . Be empathetic . This coworker may irritate you – but remember that his or her know-it-all attitude is probably stemming from a confidence issue or some deeper personal issue , Rosen says . "" Rather than get angry , allow yourself to be empathetic . "" 2 . Pick your battles . "" Dealing with a know-it-all can be exhausting and there are times when your best response is to ignore their ' helpful ' hints as much as possible , "" Collamer says . "" Deflect their comments with a simple , ' Thanks for that suggestion ' instead of engaging them in an ongoing conversation . "" 3 . Lead by example . "" A boss or manager , especially , needs to model the behavior that in many circumstances it 's not only okay to not know everything , it 's encouraged , "" Kerr says . "" Saying ' I do n't know , but let 's find some answers or get some great ideas ' demonstrates that you are flexible and open to other opinions . Saying ' I do n't know , ' can also build trust by demonstrating openness , vulnerability and honesty . "" 4 . Be armed with your own facts . If you are delivering a presentation , selling an idea or heading into a meeting , be confident in your own facts , Kerr says . "" Double check your sources and verify the facts . The more armed you are with knowledge , the less chance the know-it-all has to interject or one up you . "" When in meetings , stick to an agenda ( passed around ahead of time ) that provides a set amount of time for each person to speak , Collamer adds . "" Come prepared with facts and statistics in writing , so in the event ' Mr. Know-it-all ' does n't let you get a word in edgewise , you have something in writing to share with the team . The better prepared you are , the less room there will be for the know-it-all to commandeer the discussion . "" "" Although it 's highly tempting to use sarcasm with a know-it-all , this will undoubtedly backfire . Instead , take a deep breath , smile and do your best Johnny Carson impersonation , ' I did not know that . That is weird , wild stuff . ' Laugh it off by reminding yourself that often their behavior is harmless and they do n't really mean anything by it . A friendly , ' Okay , I want you on my Trivial Pursuit team ' can disarm a potentially tense situation . "" 6 . Ask probing questions . Be respectful , but ask detailed question to peel back the layers of a know-it-all's stance , Kerr suggests . "" Ask why they believe something to be true or where they found their sources , "" he says . "" Asking pointed questions on specific details can teach a know-it-all over time that they need to have their facts in order before speaking out . "" 7 . Take the person aside and offer constructive feedback on their behavior . "" Recognize that it 's possible that Ms. Know-it-all may be clueless about the impact of her behavior on others , "" Collamer says . "" If you suspect that 's the case , consider gently pointing this out during a private discussion away from the office . "" Kerr adds : "" Although this can be tricky , if you do it in a respectful way it can help . Keep in mind that many know-it-alls may be highly insecure , so stroke their ego , flatter them on their range of knowledge , but caution them as to how their communication style may be coming across to other people . "" Remind them how important it is for less confident people than themselves to be able to speak up . 8 . Avoid involving your boss unless the know-it-all is truly threatening your success . "" If that becomes necessary , maintain a positive tone and instead of complaining about the person , focus on what you 're willing to do to make sure the work is done well , "" says Isa Adney , author of How to Get a Job Without a Resume and the blog firstjoboutofcollege.com . Collamer agrees . "" If the situation really becomes unbearable , talk it over with your boss and let him or her know how the know-it-all's behavior is impacting the team and work environment . "" Any new entrepreneur can become quickly overwhelmed by the amount of paperwork involved in running a business . A business owner has to be concerned about record-keeping requirements for tax purposes , client contact notes , marketing schedules , and billing , while still trying to meet the day-to-day needs of running a business . Try to be as paper-free as possible . This saves money and storage costs , and does n't tie you down to a desk . One advantage of being new is that you can start from the beginning with everything . It is difficult to try to get organized once your business is established . Take some time to consider some online options that will cut down on paperwork and get your office on track right from the very start . Here are five tips that can help : Dropbox : This free online service lets you bring your photos , documents , and videos anywhere and share them easily . Just start an account to install the Dropbox application on your computer . Then you simply create and share folders to exchange information with other people . Also use Dropbox to store your own files so they are available wherever you go . Join . me : Join . me offers free screen sharing and online meetings . Share your computer screen to go over any documents when you have telephone appointments with clients . Money Issues : Being in business requires you to become a good money manager . You must keep your financial commitments and be tenacious about accounts receivable . Whenever possible , have clients pay for as much work upfront as possible . If any amount is due , use scheduling reminders to send a reminder invoice . As your business grows , you might begin using QuickBooks or PayPal to help in collecting and sending money . Authorize . Net is another online payment solution , where clients receive a link via email and access the site to pay by credit or debit card . Tax Issues : Depending on your business you could be responsible for federal and state income tax , social security payments , sales tax , and other tax responsibilities . Consult a local accountant , tax advisor , tax authority , or Small Business Administration office to find out what taxes you are responsible for as a small business owner . A Little Now Saves A Lot Later It 's never too early for high school students to start checking out colleges on their list of potential schools . A campus tour is not only a great way for students to find places they love , but also to cross off those on their list that may not be the right fit . A college may look great in a brochure or say all the right things on its website , but the true test of fit often comes from a personal visit . Of course , several things can make or break a college tour . For example , students who visit during the summer or over breaks may not have the same experience as those who attend information sessions and tours during the fall or spring semesters . To ensure students have a successful college tour , I suggest the following tips . 1 . Explore Online Before students head to any campus , it 's a good idea to do a little reconnaissance . Students should check the college's website to verify the school offers the degree programs they may be interested in , as well as study abroad or research opportunities ( if desired ) . Students may want to browse the student activities page and see what clubs , organizations and groups may be present on campus , as well . It 's not a bad idea to check if any events ( sporting , concert , etc. ) will be held during the tour date , as there could be issues with parking or areas of the campus that are inaccessible at that time . Students should definitely familiarize themselves with the admissions and financial aid pages , too . After carefully reviewing the college's website , students should write down any questions they might have and bring these with them during the tour . 2 . Make Appointments Although some schools may have informal , walk-in tours available , most of the larger schools will require an appointment for students to participate in an admissions session and / or campus tour . This means students will need to go online or call weeks ( or even months ) in advance to secure their spot . Depending on the time of year , some schools may even limit the number of high school underclassmen allowed , saving those precious spaces for graduating seniors who will be attending next fall . Seniors should not only participate in an admissions session and tour , but also consider scheduling an interview with an admissions counselor , and possibly meeting with the department chairs or professors within their chosen degree field . Juniors , who tour during the spring or summer before senior year , should also consider going through the interview process . 3 . Roam Freely Campus tours are a great way to get a feel for a school , but students should remember that tours are geared to show them the best the college has to offer . To see what a college may be like on an average day , students should opt to roam on their own for a few hours before or after their tour . It 's a good idea for them to have a meal at the cafeteria ( they 'll be eating there quite a lot , if accepted ) , sit in on a class ( big and small ) , or chat up some students that are hanging out on campus . If possible , students should also spend some time exploring the surrounding community , or consider participating in an overnight stay , to see if it the college is a good match . It 's helpful if students bring along a campus scorecard to keep track of things they like ( or dislike ) during their tours , as campuses can start to blend together after a few visits . Students should pay attention to various things , such as dorm room sizes and options , typical class size , how many students stay after their first year and how many graduate on time , as well as other things that may play a role in their decision to apply . Once students have narrowed their lists , sent in their college applications , and received their acceptance letters , a second trip may be needed to help them make a final decision . A picture may speak a thousand words , but a campus visit is the best way for students to see themselves in that picture ."	Instruction
1597	"Click Innovate were invited to attend the Health 2.0 Europe conference , which was held at The Mermaid Conference & Events Centre in London . Health 2.0 Europe is a conference scoped for the international "" Health 2.0 "" community . It has keynote sessions , demos of new devices and services and open forums for discussion . There are three requirements Click Innovate have joined the Manchester mHealth Ecosystem . The mHealth Ecosystem aims to help develop innovative solutions through sharing of expertise and best practice . This includes realistic pilot-to-adoption business plans , demonstrating costs and benefits and impact on quality outcomes . With our latest product , taggr we hope the Ecosystem will help springboard new pilots and trials . One of Click Innovate's medical apps has been reviewed by the NHS and confirmed as clinically safe . It 's now listed in their medical app library on apps . nhs . uk . You can see the entry here : http://apps.nhs.uk/app/diabetes-risk-checker/ The app ( previously only available on iPhone and Android devices ) is now also available on Windows Phone 8 to improve platform Click Innovate have won the North West Health Hack ( # NWHealthHack ) , which was hosted at Barclays global Technology Centre ( Radbroke ) on the outskirts of Knutsford , Cheshire . Our winning entry "" taggr "" is a unique system designed to ensure secondary inpatients are matched to the correct care , along with numerous other benefits . We achieve this by upgrading the Click Innovate have developed a new system for allowing GP Surgeries to find temporary GPs and Doctors . The new online based system allows surgeries to register and advertise for sessions ( either part day , full day or multiple days ) ; registered GPs and doctors notified are then invited to apply for the sessions and the surgeries choose"	Promotion
779	"T.J. Oldfield , L.S.D. Caves , B. Grant , A. Rodrigues , & C. Dieterich . The analysis of large amounts of data generated from protein X-ray crystallography / NMR , as well as genomic sequencing , is a daunting task given the size of the data . We are approaching this problem using mathematical data mining techniques . Data mining is the analysis of a set of data using only mathematical targets ( numerical occurrence , derivatives and 2nd derivatives ) to define a signal ( something interesting in the data that is not noise ) . This has the advantage that any result from the analysis is not biased by any preconceived ideas about protein structure or genome content . Its main disadvantage is that the method does not give the biological reason for a particular result because the target of the analysis is a simple mathematical metric . To date , the analysis of protein data has focused on the understanding of folds within the proteins and local interactions of residues / atoms . The latter identifies ligand-binding sites . The analysis of genomes has focused on the mathematical derivation of information content within genomes / ORFs and has generated some interesting relationships between coding and non-coding regions of genomes . Funding : Accelrys References : T.J. Oldfield "" Creating structure features by data mining the PDB to use as Molecular Replacement Models "" . Accepted for publication Acta . Cryst . D."	Information/Explanation
281	"In producing a signlist and analysing its contents , it is obviously very important to consider the question of what actually constitutes a "" sign "" . Much has changed since the traditional Assyriological signlists were first produced , both in Assyriology and in the description and analysis of writing and writing systems in general . The minimal unit of written language - and this applies equally to logo-syllabic scripts such as cuneiform as it does to alphabetic scripts - is the grapheme . One might describe this as the smallest contrastive unit of writing . By substituting one such unit for another , a significant change in meaning ( using the term in its broad sense ) occurs . Grapheme is not an unproblematic term ( notice , for instance , that there is no one-to-one relationship between graphemes and phonemes ) but it is both defensible and useful , as far as the present study of cuneiform is concerned , at least . There are many and various indications of what ancient scribes considered units in cuneiform ; in light of these , a set of criteria is being drawn up to allow the identification of signs . The CDP project will catalogue and analyse these units , these graphemes . Thus for the signlist , the sign is a grapheme . There are two further levels at which cuneiform signs can be described . Graphemes may appear in several different , yet equally valid , forms ; these are labelled allographs . Each instance - the actual mark or set of marks one sees in the clay - is an example of an allograph of a grapheme ; these are labelled graphs . To illustrate the difference between graph , allograph and grapheme , consider alphabetic writing . Readers of alphabetic writing , as they look at what they are reading , see a long string of graphs . Effortlessly they identify each graph as a valid instance of a particular letter or mark of punctuation , that is , as a depiction of a grapheme . Even in the highly controlled graphic environment of print there is still a lot of allographic variation : the grapheme / a / , for instance , may be a roman ' a ' or an italic ' a ' , ( in most typefaces a completely different form ) . All of these are recognised without hesitation by skilled readers as being different versions of the same thing , allographs of the grapheme / a / , and therefore , in our alphabetic script , inviting the same range of phonological realisation . We see those different graphic shapes , and in our head appears the noise ' a ' or ' ay ' or whatever else the context dictates . For a more detailed discussion , see the terminology section . In the study of cuneiform , work has been concentrated at the graphemic level . Great efforts have been made to identify the cuneiform signs , and there are standard lists that name and illustrate them . But little work has been done at the allographic level , which is the level of a truly useful sign list , nor at the graphic level , the level at which the identifying characteristics of individual scribes are to be found . The reasons for this are partly"	Information/Explanation
1529	Schneider Electric , a global specialist in energy management , has launched its new Spacial CRS range of enclosure heaters adapted for outdoor installations , following the latest research into enclosure innovations . Offering maximum effectiveness against high humidity and condensation , the ultra thin design and very low power density per cm , allows constant heat diffusion within all enclosure surfaces . With an operational limit of -60 C , Spacial CRS heaters are also ideal for use in environments which experience extremely low temperatures . What 's more , the combination of a Schneider Electric control device such as a hygrostat , hygrometer or thermostat along with a Spacial CRS heater , allows energy consumption savings of up to 50 % compared with a heater installed without any control devices . The Spacial CRS heaters are designed to be placed closely to equipment that is highly humidity and temperature-sensitive , but with the least possible footprint . The ultra-thin design has a depth of 1 . 6mm , making them the narrowest heaters available on the market and enabling them to be installed in areas which were not previously accessible to the installer for example , the side panels , the rear part of door or the rear part of mounting plate . Five installation modes in total are now possible . The Spacial CRS heaters have a very low and steady set-off power compared with common PTC heaters , which prevents the occurrence of disturbances and preserves the electrical protection of the heaters . Furthermore , Spacial CRS heaters are UL , CUL , and VDE approved and are suitable for use in infrastructure segments for example in motorway , water , railway and public lighting applications as well as for the OEM's market .	Promotion
416	Romantic Places to visit Stonehenge , near Amesbury , Wiltshire The ancient stone circle of Stonehenge is one of the wonders of the world . Stone Circle Access by advanced booking only Recommended last admission 30 minutes before closing time Now a World Heritage Site , Stonehenge and all its surroundings remain powerful witnesses to the once great civilisations of the Stone and Bronze Ages , between 5,000 and 3,000 years ago . Stonehenge is surrounded by 1,500 acres of land owned by the National Trust with excellent walks . Complimentary audio tours available in nine languages . There is catering on site at the Stonehenge Kitchen and there are family learning resources available . Directions Two miles west of Amesbury at junction with A303 and A344 / 360 . Rail : Salisbury station . Bus : Wilts and Dorset service No 3 . Tourist Information Centre Amesbury Tourist Information Centre Amesbury library Smithfield Street Amesbury Tel : 01980 622833 / & Answerphone Fax : 0 1980 625541 Contact via email Salisbury Food and Drink Festival 2006 Salisbury's fabulous Food and Drink Festival The George & Dragon Award winning pub specialising in fresh fish served in a friendly and informal atmosphere . Castle and Ball Hotel Wilton House Splendid house , magnificent art collection , home to Earl of Pembroke . Mompesson House A distinguished Queen Anne House situated in the stunning Cathderal Close in Salisbury . Salisbury Cathedral Salisbury is Britain's finest 13th century Gothic Cathedral .	Promotion
960	Next , you will be presented with the search screen below . Since you have not done a search yet , the Search History field will be blank . To conduct a literature search , you should do the following things : Uncheck the Map Term to Subject Heading box Enter word or phrase to search for Click on perform search Next , you will get a page like the following . To view your search results , click on the display button . Note that , depending upon what you are searching for , your search may generate a lot of papers . If you get too many results , try changing the search term or ask for advice from the staff in the Boyd Orr labs . Once your results page has loaded , scroll through it and tick on the titles you think might be useful . Click the Next Result ( s ) button to go on to your next page .	Instruction
819	The first eight photographs above were taken from the hill in Holyrood Park , looking over Edinburgh on a clear sunny morning in early November 2002 . The next seven photos were taken on Sunday 10 November 2002 , after the Remembrance Day Ceremony , held beneath the Royal Scots Grey statue in West Princes Street Gardens . The final photograph is the Nelson Monument on Calton Hill , photographed in late November 2002 , from Regent Road . The ' pictures ' above are computer-produced . They have been derived from the photographs above using the Photoshop program .	Information/Explanation
44	"The little mermaid Far out in the ocean , where the water is as blue as the prettiest cornflower , and as clear as crystal , it is very , very deep ; so deep , indeed , that no cable could fathom it : many church steeples , piled one upon another , would not reach from the ground beneath to the surface of the water above . There dwell the Sea King and his subjects . We must not imagine that there is nothing at the bottom of the sea but bare yellow sand . No , indeed ; the most singular flowers and plants grow there ; the leaves and stems of which are so pliant , that the slightest agitation of the water causes them to stir as if they had life . Fishes , both large and small , glide between the branches , as birds fly among the trees here upon land . In the deepest spot of all , stands the castle of the Sea King . Its walls are built of coral , and the long , gothic windows are of the clearest amber . The roof is formed of shells , that open and close as the water flows over them . Their appearance is very beautiful , for in each lies a glittering pearl , which would be fit for the diadem of a queen . The Sea King had been a widower for many years , and his aged mother kept house for him . She was a very wise woman , and exceedingly proud of her high birth ; on that account she wore twelve oysters on her tail ; while others , also of high rank , were only allowed to wear six . She was , however , deserving of very great praise , especially for her care of the little sea-princesses , her grand-daughters . They were six beautiful children ; but the youngest was the prettiest of them all ; her skin was as clear and delicate as a rose-leaf , and her eyes as blue as the deepest sea ; but , like all the others , she had no feet , and her body ended in a fish's tail . All day long they played in the great halls of the castle , or among the living flowers that grew out of the walls . The large amber windows were open , and the fish swam in , just as the swallows fly into our houses when we open the windows , excepting that the fishes swam up to the princesses , ate out of their hands , and allowed themselves to be stroked . Outside the castle there was a beautiful garden , in which grew bright red and dark blue flowers , and blossoms like flames of fire ; the fruit glittered like gold , and the leaves and stems waved to and fro continually . The earth itself was the finest sand , but blue as the flame of burning sulphur . Over everything lay a peculiar blue radiance , as if it were surrounded by the air from above , through which the blue sky shone , instead of the dark depths of the sea . In calm weather the sun could be seen , looking like a purple flower , with the light streaming from the calyx . Each of the young princesses had a little plot of ground in the garden , where she might dig and plant as she pleased . One arranged her flower-bed into the form of a whale ; another thought it better to make hers like the figure of a little mermaid ; but that of the youngest was round like the sun , and contained flowers as red as his rays at sunset . She was a strange child , quiet and thoughtful ; and while her sisters would be delighted with the wonderful things which they obtained from the wrecks of vessels , she cared for nothing but her pretty red flowers , like the sun , excepting a beautiful marble statue . It was the representation of a handsome boy , carved out of pure white stone , which had fallen to the bottom of the sea from a wreck . She planted by the statue a rose-colored weeping willow . It grew splendidly , and very soon hung its fresh branches over the statue , almost down to the blue sands . The shadow had a violet tint , and waved to and fro like the branches ; it seemed as if the crown of the tree and the root were at play , and trying to kiss each other . Nothing gave her so much pleasure as to hear about the world above the sea . She made her old grandmother tell her all she knew of the ships and of the towns , the people and the animals . To her it seemed most wonderful and beautiful to hear that the flowers of the land should have fragrance , and not those below the sea ; that the trees of the forest should be green ; and that the fishes among the trees could sing so sweetly , that it was quite a pleasure to hear them . Her grandmother called the little birds fishes , or she would not have understood her ; for she had never seen birds . "" When you have reached your fifteenth year , "" said the grand-mother , "" you will have permission to rise up out of the sea , to sit on the rocks in the moonlight , while the great ships are sailing by ; and then you will see both forests and towns . "" In the following year , one of the sisters would be fifteen : but as each was a year younger than the other , the youngest would have to wait five years before her turn came to rise up from the bottom of the ocean , and see the earth as we do . However , each promised to tell the others what she saw on her first visit , and what she thought the most beautiful ; for their grandmother could not tell them enough ; there were so many things on which they wanted information . None of them longed so much for her turn to come as the youngest , she who had the longest time to wait , and who was so quiet and thoughtful . Many nights she stood by the open window , looking up through the dark blue water , and watching the fish as they splashed about with their fins and tails . She could see the moon and stars shining faintly ; but through the water they looked larger than they do to our eyes . When something like a black cloud passed between her and them , she knew that it was either a whale swimming over her head , or a ship full of human beings , who never imagined that a pretty little mermaid was standing beneath them , holding out her white hands towards the keel of their ship . As soon as the eldest was fifteen , she was allowed to rise to the surface of the ocean . When she came back , she had hundreds of things to talk about ; but the most beautiful , she said , was to lie in the moonlight , on a sandbank , in the quiet sea , near the coast , and to gaze on a large town nearby , where the lights were twinkling like hundreds of stars ; to listen to the sounds of the music , the noise of carriages , and the voices of human beings , and then to hear the merry bells peal out from the church steeples ; and because she could not go near to all those wonderful things , she longed for them more than ever . Oh , did not the youngest sister listen eagerly to all these descriptions ? and afterwards , when she stood at the open window looking up through the dark blue water , she thought of the great city , with all its bustle and noise , and even fancied she could hear the sound of the church bells , down in the depths of the sea . In another year the second sister received permission to rise to the surface of the water , and to swim about where she pleased . She rose just as the sun was setting , and this , she said , was the most beautiful sight of all . The whole sky looked like gold , while violet and rose-colored clouds , which she could not describe , floated over her ; and , still more rapidly than the clouds , flew a large flock of wild swans towards the setting sun , looking like a long white veil across the sea . She also swam towards the sun ; but it sunk into the waves , and the rosy tints faded from the clouds and from the sea . The third sister's turn followed ; she was the boldest of them all , and she swam up a broad river that emptied itself into the sea . On the banks she saw green hills covered with beautiful vines ; palaces and castles peeped out from amid the proud trees of the forest ; she heard the birds singing , and the rays of the sun were so powerful that she was obliged often to dive down under the water to cool her burning face . In a narrow creek she found a whole troop of little human children , quite naked , and sporting about in the water ; she wanted to play with them , but they fled in a great fright ; and then a little black animal came to the water ; it was a dog , but she did not know that , for she had never before seen one . This animal barked at her so terribly that she became frightened , and rushed back to the open sea . But she said she should never forget the beautiful forest , the green hills , and the pretty little children who could swim in the water , although they had not fish's tails . The fourth sister was more timid ; she remained in the midst of the sea , but she said it was quite as beautiful there as nearer the land . She could see for so many miles around her , and the sky above looked like a bell of glass . She had seen the ships , but at such a great distance that they looked like sea-gulls . The dolphins sported in the waves , and the great whales spouted water from their nostrils till it seemed as if a hundred fountains were playing in every direction . The fifth sister's birthday occurred in the winter ; so when her turn came , she saw what the others had not seen the first time they went up . The sea looked quite green , and large icebergs were floating about , each like a pearl , she said , but larger and loftier than the churches built by men . They were of the most singular shapes , and glittered like diamonds . She had seated herself upon one of the largest , and let the wind play with her long hair , and she remarked that all the ships sailed by rapidly , and steered as far away as they could from the iceberg , as if they were afraid of it . Towards evening , as the sun went down , dark clouds covered the sky , the thunder rolled and the lightning flashed , and the red light glowed on the icebergs as they rocked and tossed on the heaving sea . On all the ships the sails were reefed with fear and trembling , while she sat calmly on the floating iceberg , watching the blue lightning , as it darted its forked flashes into the sea . When first the sisters had permission to rise to the surface , they were each delighted with the new and beautiful sights they saw ; but now , as grown-up girls , they could go when they pleased , and they had become indifferent about it . They wished themselves back again in the water , and after a month had passed they said it was much more beautiful down below , and pleasanter to be at home . Yet often , in the evening hours , the five sisters would twine their arms round each other , and rise to the surface , in a row . They had more beautiful voices than any human being could have ; and before the approach of a storm , and when they expected a ship would be lost , they swam before the vessel , and sang sweetly of the delights to be found in the depths of the sea , and begging the sailors not to fear if they sank to the bottom . But the sailors could not understand the song , they took it for the howling of the storm . And these things were never to be beautiful for them ; for if the ship sank , the men were drowned , and their dead bodies alone reached the palace of the Sea King . When the sisters rose , arm-in-arm , through the water in this way , their youngest sister would stand quite alone , looking after them , ready to cry , only that the mermaids have no tears , and therefore they suffer more . "" Oh , were I but fifteen years old , "" said she : "" I know that I shall love the world up there , and all the people who live in it . "" At last she reached her fifteenth year . "" Well , now , you are grown up , "" said the old dowager , her grandmother ; "" so you must let me adorn you like your other sisters ; "" and she placed a wreath of white lilies in her hair , and every flower leaf was half a pearl . Then the old lady ordered eight great oysters to attach themselves to the tail of the princess to show her high rank . "" But they hurt me so , "" said the little mermaid . "" Pride must suffer pain , "" replied the old lady . Oh , how gladly she would have shaken off all this grandeur , and laid aside the heavy wreath ! The red flowers in her own garden would have suited her much better , but she could not help herself : so she said , "" Farewell , "" and rose as lightly as a bubble to the surface of the water . The sun had just set as she raised her head above the waves ; but the clouds were tinted with crimson and gold , and through the glimmering twilight beamed the evening star in all its beauty . The sea was calm , and the air mild and fresh . A large ship , with three masts , lay becalmed on the water , with only one sail set ; for not a breeze stiffed , and the sailors sat idle on deck or amongst the rigging . There was music and song on board ; and , as darkness came on , a hundred colored lanterns were lighted , as if the flags of all nations waved in the air . The little mermaid swam close to the cabin windows ; and now and then , as the waves lifted her up , she could look in through clear glass window-panes , and see a number of well-dressed people within . Among them was a young prince , the most beautiful of all , with large black eyes ; he was sixteen years of age , and his birthday was being kept with much rejoicing . The sailors were dancing on deck , but when the prince came out of the cabin , more than a hundred rockets rose in the air , making it as bright as day . The little mermaid was so startled that she dived under water ; and when she again stretched out her head , it appeared as if all the stars of heaven were falling around her , she had never seen such fireworks before . Great suns spurted fire about , splendid fireflies flew into the blue air , and everything was reflected in the clear , calm sea beneath . The ship itself was so brightly illuminated that all the people , and even the smallest rope , could be distinctly and plainly seen . And how handsome the young prince looked , as he pressed the hands of all present and smiled at them , while the music resounded through the clear night air . It was very late ; yet the little mermaid could not take her eyes from the ship , or from the beautiful prince . The colored lanterns had been extinguished , no more rockets rose in the air , and the cannon had ceased firing ; but the sea became restless , and a moaning , grumbling sound could be heard beneath the waves : still the little mermaid remained by the cabin window , rocking up and down on the water , which enabled her to look in . After a while , the sails were quickly unfurled , and the noble ship continued her passage ; but soon the waves rose higher , heavy clouds darkened the sky , and lightning appeared in the distance . A dreadful storm was approaching ; once more the sails were reefed , and the great ship pursued her flying course over the raging sea . The waves rose mountains high , as if they would have overtopped the mast ; but the ship dived like a swan between them , and then rose again on their lofty , foaming crests . To the little mermaid this appeared pleasant sport ; not so to the sailors . At length the ship groaned and creaked ; the thick planks gave way under the lashing of the sea as it broke over the deck ; the mainmast snapped asunder like a reed ; the ship lay over on her side ; and the water rushed in . The little mermaid now perceived that the crew were in danger ; even she herself was obliged to be careful to avoid the beams and planks of the wreck which lay scattered on the water . At one moment it was so pitch dark that she could not see a single object , but a flash of lightning revealed the whole scene ; she could see every one who had been on board excepting the prince ; when the ship parted , she had seen him sink into the deep waves , and she was glad , for she thought he would now be with her ; and then she remembered that human beings could not live in the water , so that when he got down to her father's palace he would be quite dead . But he must not die . So she swam about among the beams and planks which strewed the surface of the sea , forgetting that they could crush her to pieces . Then she dived deeply under the dark waters , rising and falling with the waves , till at length she managed to reach the young prince , who was fast losing the power of swimming in that stormy sea . His limbs were failing him , his beautiful eyes were closed , and he would have died had not the little mermaid come to his assistance . She held his head above the water , and let the waves drift them where they would . In the morning the storm had ceased ; but of the ship not a single fragment could be seen . The sun rose up red and glowing from the water , and its beams brought back the hue of health to the prince's cheeks ; but his eyes remained closed . The mermaid kissed his high , smooth forehead , and stroked back his wet hair ; he seemed to her like the marble statue in her little garden , and she kissed him again , and wished that he might live . Presently they came in sight of land ; she saw lofty blue mountains , on which the white snow rested as if a flock of swans were lying upon them . Near the coast were beautiful green forests , and close by stood a large building , whether a church or a convent she could not tell . Orange and citron trees grew in the garden , and before the door stood lofty palms . The sea here formed a little bay , in which the water was quite still , but very deep ; so she swam with the handsome prince to the beach , which was covered with fine , white sand , and there she laid him in the warm sunshine , taking care to raise his head higher than his body . Then bells sounded in the large white building , and a number of young girls came into the garden . The little mermaid swam out farther from the shore and placed herself between some high rocks that rose out of the water ; then she covered her head and neck with the foam of the sea so that her little face might not be seen , and watched to see what would become of the poor prince . She did not wait long before she saw a young girl approach the spot where he lay . She seemed frightened at first , but only for a moment ; then she fetched a number of people , and the mermaid saw that the prince came to life again , and smiled upon those who stood round him . But to her he sent no smile ; he knew not that she had saved him . This made her very unhappy , and when he was led away into the great building , she dived down sorrowfully into the water , and returned to her father's castle . She had always been silent and thoughtful , and now she was more so than ever . Her sisters asked her what she had seen during her first visit to the surface of the water ; but she would tell them nothing . Many an evening and morning did she rise to the place where she had left the prince . She saw the fruits in the garden ripen till they were gathered , the snow on the tops of the mountains melt away ; but she never saw the prince , and therefore she returned home , always more sorrowful than before . It was her only comfort to sit in her own little garden , and fling her arm round the beautiful marble statue which was like the prince ; but she gave up tending her flowers , and they grew in wild confusion over the paths , twining their long leaves and stems round the branches of the trees , so that the whole place became dark and gloomy . At length she could bear it no longer , and told one of her sisters all about it . Then the others heard the secret , and very soon it became known to two mermaids whose intimate friend happened to know who the prince was . She had also seen the festival on board ship , and she told them where the prince came from , and where his palace stood . "" Come , little sister , "" said the other princesses ; then they entwined their arms and rose up in a long row to the surface of the water , close by the spot where they knew the prince's palace stood . It was built of bright yellow shining stone , with long flights of marble steps , one of which reached quite down to the sea . Splendid gilded cupolas rose over the roof , and between the pillars that surrounded the whole building stood life-like statues of marble . Through the clear crystal of the lofty windows could be seen noble rooms , with costly silk curtains and hangings of tapestry ; while the walls were covered with beautiful paintings which were a pleasure to look at . In the centre of the largest saloon a fountain threw its sparkling jets high up into the glass cupola of the ceiling , through which the sun shone down upon the water and upon the beautiful plants growing round the basin of the fountain . Now that she knew where he lived , she spent many an evening and many a night on the water near the palace . She would swim much nearer the shore than any of the others ventured to do ; indeed once she went quite up the narrow channel under the marble balcony , which threw a broad shadow on the water . Here she would sit and watch the young prince , who thought himself quite alone in the bright moonlight . She saw him many times of an evening sailing in a pleasant boat , with music playing and flags waving . She peeped out from among the green rushes , and if the wind caught her long silvery-white veil , those who saw it believed it to be a swan , spreading out its wings . On many a night , too , when the fishermen , with their torches , were out at sea , she heard them relate so many good things about the doings of the young prince , that she was glad she had saved his life when he had been tossed about half-dead on the waves . And she remembered that his head had rested on her bosom , and how heartily she had kissed him ; but he knew nothing of all this , and could not even dream of her . She grew more and more fond of human beings , and wished more and more to be able to wander about with those whose world seemed to be so much larger than her own . They could fly over the sea in ships , and mount the high hills which were far above the clouds ; and the lands they possessed , their woods and their fields , stretched far away beyond the reach of her sight . There was so much that she wished to know , and her sisters were unable to answer all her questions . Then she applied to her old grandmother , who knew all about the upper world , which she very rightly called the lands above the sea . "" If human beings are not drowned , "" asked the little mermaid , "" can they live forever ? do they never die as we do here in the sea ? "" "" Yes , "" replied the old lady , "" they must also die , and their term of life is even shorter than ours . We sometimes live to three hundred years , but when we cease to exist here we only become the foam on the surface of the water , and we have not even a grave down here of those we love . We have not immortal souls , we shall never live again ; but , like the green sea-weed , when once it has been cut off , we can never flourish more . Human beings , on the contrary , have a soul which lives forever , lives after the body has been turned to dust . It rises up through the clear , pure air beyond the glittering stars . As we rise out of the water , and behold all the land of the earth , so do they rise to unknown and glorious regions which we shall never see . "" "" Why have not we an immortal soul ? "" asked the little mermaid mournfully ; "" I would give gladly all the hundreds of years that I have to live , to be a human being only for one day , and to have the hope of knowing the happiness of that glorious world above the stars . "" "" You must not think of that , "" said the old woman ; "" we feel ourselves to be much happier and much better off than human beings . "" "" So I shall die , "" said the little mermaid , "" and as the foam of the sea I shall be driven about never again to hear the music of the waves , or to see the pretty flowers nor the red sun . Is there anything I can do to win an immortal soul ? "" "" No , "" said the old woman , "" unless a man were to love you so much that you were more to him than his father or mother ; and if all his thoughts and all his love were fixed upon you , and the priest placed his right hand in yours , and he promised to be true to you here and hereafter , then his soul would glide into your body and you would obtain a share in the future happiness of mankind . He would give a soul to you and retain his own as well ; but this can never happen . Your fish's tail , which amongst us is considered so beautiful , is thought on earth to be quite ugly ; they do not know any better , and they think it necessary to have two stout props , which they call legs , in order to be handsome . "" Then the little mermaid sighed , and looked sorrowfully at her fish's tail . "" Let us be happy , "" said the old lady , "" and dart and spring about during the three hundred years that we have to live , which is really quite long enough ; after that we can rest ourselves all the better . This evening we are going to have a court ball . "" It is one of those splendid sights which we can never see on earth . The walls and the ceiling of the large ball-room were of thick , but transparent crystal . May hundreds of colossal shells , some of a deep red , others of a grass green , stood on each side in rows , with blue fire in them , which lighted up the whole saloon , and shone through the walls , so that the sea was also illuminated . Innumerable fishes , great and small , swam past the crystal walls ; on some of them the scales glowed with a purple brilliancy , and on others they shone like silver and gold . Through the halls flowed a broad stream , and in it danced the mermen and the mermaids to the music of their own sweet singing . No one on earth has such a lovely voice as theirs . The little mermaid sang more sweetly than them all . The whole court applauded her with hands and tails ; and for a moment her heart felt quite gay , for she knew she had the loveliest voice of any on earth or in the sea . But she soon thought again of the world above her , for she could not forget the charming prince , nor her sorrow that she had not an immortal soul like his ; therefore she crept away silently out of her father's palace , and while everything within was gladness and song , she sat in her own little garden sorrowful and alone . Then she heard the bugle sounding through the water , and thought – "" He is certainly sailing above , he on whom my wishes depend , and in whose hands I should like to place the happiness of my life . I will venture all for him , and to win an immortal soul , while my sisters are dancing in my father's palace , I will go to the sea witch , of whom I have always been so much afraid , but she can give me counsel and help . "" And then the little mermaid went out from her garden , and took the road to the foaming whirlpools , behind which the sorceress lived . She had never been that way before : neither flowers nor grass grew there ; nothing but bare , gray , sandy ground stretched out to the whirlpool , where the water , like foaming mill-wheels , whirled round everything that it seized , and cast it into the fathomless deep . Through the midst of these crushing whirlpools the little mermaid was obliged to pass , to reach the dominions of the sea witch ; and also for a long distance the only road lay right across a quantity of warm , bubbling mire , called by the witch her turfmoor . Beyond this stood her house , in the centre of a strange forest , in which all the trees and flowers were polypi , half animals and half plants ; they looked like serpents with a hundred heads growing out of the ground . The branches were long slimy arms , with fingers like flexible worms , moving limb after limb from the root to the top . All that could be reached in the sea they seized upon , and held fast , so that it never escaped from their clutches . The little mermaid was so alarmed at what she saw , that she stood still , and her heart beat with fear , and she was very nearly turning back ; but she thought of the prince , and of the human soul for which she longed , and her courage returned . She fastened her long flowing hair round her head , so that the polypi might not seize hold of it . She laid her hands together across her bosom , and then she darted forward as a fish shoots through the water , between the supple arms and fingers of the ugly polypi , which were stretched out on each side of her . She saw that each held in its grasp something it had seized with its numerous little arms , as if they were iron bands . The white skeletons of human beings who had perished at sea , and had sunk down into the deep waters , skeletons of land animals , oars , rudders , and chests of ships were lying tightly grasped by their clinging arms ; even a little mermaid , whom they had caught and strangled ; and this seemed the most shocking of all to the little princess . She now came to a space of marshy ground in the wood , where large , fat water-snakes were rolling in the mire , and showing their ugly , drab-colored bodies . In the midst of this spot stood a house , built with the bones of shipwrecked human beings . There sat the sea witch , allowing a toad to eat from her mouth , just as people sometimes feed a canary with a piece of sugar . She called the ugly water-snakes her little chickens , and allowed them to crawl all over her bosom . "" I know what you want , "" said the sea witch ; "" it is very stupid of you , but you shall have your way , and it will bring you to sorrow , my pretty princess . You want to get rid of your fish's tail , and to have two supports instead of it , like human beings on earth , so that the young prince may fall in love with you , and that you may have an immortal soul . "" And then the witch laughed so loud and disgustingly , that the toad and the snakes fell to the ground , and lay there wriggling about . "" You are but just in time , "" said the witch ; "" for after sunrise to-morrow I should not be able to help you till the end of another year . I will prepare a draught for you , with which you must swim to land tomorrow before sunrise , and sit down on the shore and drink it . Your tail will then disappear , and shrink up into what mankind calls legs , and you will feel great pain , as if a sword were passing through you . But all who see you will say that you are the prettiest little human being they ever saw . You will still have the same floating gracefulness of movement , and no dancer will ever tread so lightly ; but at every step you take it will feel as if you were treading upon sharp knives , and that the blood must flow . If you will bear all this , I will help you . "" "" Yes , I will , "" said the little princess in a trembling voice , as she thought of the prince and the immortal soul . "" But think again , "" said the witch ; "" for when once your shape has become like a human being , you can no more be a mermaid . You will never return through the water to your sisters , or to your father's palace again ; and if you do not win the love of the prince , so that he is willing to forget his father and mother for your sake , and to love you with his whole soul , and allow the priest to join your hands that you may be man and wife , then you will never have an immortal soul . The first morning after he marries another your heart will break , and you will become foam on the crest of the waves . "" "" I will do it , "" said the little mermaid , and she became pale as death . "" But I must be paid also , "" said the witch , "" and it is not a trifle that I ask . You have the sweetest voice of any who dwell here in the depths of the sea , and you believe that you will be able to charm the prince with it also , but this voice you must give to me ; the best thing you possess will I have for the price of my draught . My own blood must be mixed with it , that it may be as sharp as a two-edged sword . "" "" But if you take away my voice , "" said the little mermaid , "" what is left for me ? "" "" Your beautiful form , your graceful walk , and your expressive eyes ; surely with these you can enchain a man's heart . Well , have you lost your courage ? Put out your little tongue that I may cut it off as my payment ; then you shall have the powerful draught . "" "" It shall be , "" said the little mermaid . Then the witch placed her cauldron on the fire , to prepare the magic draught . "" Cleanliness is a good thing , "" said she , scouring the vessel with snakes , which she had tied together in a large knot ; then she pricked herself in the breast , and let the black blood drop into it . The steam that rose formed itself into such horrible shapes that no one could look at them without fear . Every moment the witch threw something else into the vessel , and when it began to boil , the sound was like the weeping of a crocodile . When at last the magic draught was ready , it looked like the clearest water . "" There it is for you , "" said the witch . Then she cut off the mermaid's tongue , so that she became dumb , and would never again speak or sing . "" If the polypi should seize hold of you as you return through the wood , "" said the witch , "" throw over them a few drops of the potion , and their fingers will be torn into a thousand pieces . "" But the little mermaid had no occasion to do this , for the polypi sprang back in terror when they caught sight of the glittering draught , which shone in her hand like a twinkling star . So she passed quickly through the wood and the marsh , and between the rushing whirlpools . She saw that in her father's palace the torches in the ballroom were extinguished , and all within asleep ; but she did not venture to go in to them , for now she was dumb and going to leave them forever , she felt as if her heart would break . She stole into the garden , took a flower from the flower-beds of each of her sisters , kissed her hand a thousand times towards the palace , and then rose up through the dark blue waters . The sun had not risen when she came in sight of the prince's palace , and approached the beautiful marble steps , but the moon shone clear and bright . Then the little mermaid drank the magic draught , and it seemed as if a two-edged sword went through her delicate body : she fell into a swoon , and lay like one dead . When the sun arose and shone over the sea , she recovered , and felt a sharp pain ; but just before her stood the handsome young prince . He fixed his coal-black eyes upon her so earnestly that she cast down her own , and then became aware that her fish's tail was gone , and that she had as pretty a pair of white legs and tiny feet as any little maiden could have ; but she had no clothes , so she wrapped herself in her long , thick hair . The prince asked her who she was , and where she came from , and she looked at him mildly and sorrowfully with her deep blue eyes ; but she could not speak . Every step she took was as the witch had said it would be , she felt as if treading upon the points of needles or sharp knives ; but she bore it willingly , and stepped as lightly by the prince's side as a soap-bubble , so that he and all who saw her wondered at her graceful-swaying movements . She was very soon arrayed in costly robes of silk and muslin , and was the most beautiful creature in the palace ; but she was dumb , and could neither speak nor sing . Beautiful female slaves , dressed in silk and gold , stepped forward and sang before the prince and his royal parents : one sang better than all the others , and the prince clapped his hands and smiled at her . This was great sorrow to the little mermaid ; she knew how much more sweetly she herself could sing once , and she thought , "" Oh if he could only know that ! I have given away my voice forever , to be with him . "" The slaves next performed some pretty fairy-like dances , to the sound of beautiful music . Then the little mermaid raised her lovely white arms , stood on the tips of her toes , and glided over the floor , and danced as no one yet had been able to dance . At each moment her beauty became more revealed , and her expressive eyes appealed more directly to the heart than the songs of the slaves . Every one was enchanted , especially the prince , who called her his little foundling ; and she danced again quite readily , to please him , though each time her foot touched the floor it seemed as if she trod on sharp knives . The prince said she should remain with him always , and she received permission to sleep at his door , on a velvet cushion . He had a page's dress made for her , that she might accompany him on horseback . They rode together through the sweet-scented woods , where the green boughs touched their shoulders , and the little birds sang among the fresh leaves . She climbed with the prince to the tops of high mountains ; and although her tender feet bled so that even her steps were marked , she only laughed , and followed him till they could see the clouds beneath them looking like a flock of birds travelling to distant lands . While at the prince's palace , and when all the household were asleep , she would go and sit on the broad marble steps ; for it eased her burning feet to bathe them in the cold sea-water ; and then she thought of all those below in the deep . Once during the night her sisters came up arm-in-arm , singing sorrowfully , as they floated on the water . She beckoned to them , and then they recognized her , and told her how she had grieved them . After that , they came to the same place every night ; and once she saw in the distance her old grandmother , who had not been to the surface of the sea for many years , and the old Sea King , her father , with his crown on his head . They stretched out their hands towards her , but they did not venture so near the land as her sisters did . As the days passed , she loved the prince more fondly , and he loved her as he would love a little child , but it never came into his head to make her his wife ; yet , unless he married her , she could not receive an immortal soul ; and , on the morning after his marriage with another , she would dissolve into the foam of the sea . "" Do you not love me the best of them all ? "" the eyes of the little mermaid seemed to say , when he took her in his arms , and kissed her fair forehead . "" Yes , you are dear to me , "" said the prince ; "" for you have the best heart , and you are the most devoted to me ; you are like a young maiden whom I once saw , but whom I shall never meet again . I was in a ship that was wrecked , and the waves cast me ashore near a holy temple , where several young maidens performed the service . The youngest of them found me on the shore , and saved my life . I saw her but twice , and she is the only one in the world whom I could love ; but you are like her , and you have almost driven her image out of my mind . She belongs to the holy temple , and my good fortune has sent you to me instead of her ; and we will never part . "" "" Ah , he knows not that it was I who saved his life , "" thought the little mermaid . "" I carried him over the sea to the wood where the temple stands : I sat beneath the foam , and watched till the human beings came to help him . I saw the pretty maiden that he loves better than he loves me ; "" and the mermaid sighed deeply , but she could not shed tears . "" He says the maiden belongs to the holy temple , therefore she will never return to the world . They will meet no more : while I am by his side , and see him every day . I will take care of him , and love him , and give up my life for his sake . "" Very soon it was said that the prince must marry , and that the beautiful daughter of a neighboring king would be his wife , for a fine ship was being fitted out . Although the prince gave out that he merely intended to pay a visit to the king , it was generally supposed that he really went to see his daughter . A great company were to go with him . The little mermaid smiled , and shook her head . She knew the prince's thoughts better than any of the others . "" I must travel , "" he had said to her ; "" I must see this beautiful princess ; my parents desire it ; but they will not oblige me to bring her home as my bride . I can not love her ; she is not like the beautiful maiden in the temple , whom you resemble . If I were forced to choose a bride , I would rather choose you , my dumb foundling , with those expressive eyes . "" And then he kissed her rosy mouth , played with her long waving hair , and laid his head on her heart , while she dreamed of human happiness and an immortal soul . "" You are not afraid of the sea , my dumb child , "" said he , as they stood on the deck of the noble ship which was to carry them to the country of the neighboring king . And then he told her of storm and of calm , of strange fishes in the deep beneath them , and of what the divers had seen there ; and she smiled at his descriptions , for she knew better than any one what wonders were at the bottom of the sea . In the moonlight , when all on board were asleep , excepting the man at the helm , who was steering , she sat on the deck , gazing down through the clear water . She thought she could distinguish her father's castle , and upon it her aged grandmother , with the silver crown on her head , looking through the rushing tide at the keel of the vessel . Then her sisters came up on the waves , and gazed at her mournfully , wringing their white hands . She beckoned to them , and smiled , and wanted to tell them how happy and well off she was ; but the cabin-boy approached , and when her sisters dived down he thought it was only the foam of the sea which he saw . The next morning the ship sailed into the harbor of a beautiful town belonging to the king whom the prince was going to visit . The church bells were ringing , and from the high towers sounded a flourish of trumpets ; and soldiers , with flying colors and glittering bayonets , lined the rocks through which they passed . Every day was a festival ; balls and entertainments followed one another . But the princess had not yet appeared . People said that she was being brought up and educated in a religious house , where she was learning every royal virtue . At last she came . Then the little mermaid , who was very anxious to see whether she was really beautiful , was obliged to acknowledge that she had never seen a more perfect vision of beauty . Her skin was delicately fair , and beneath her long dark eye-lashes her laughing blue eyes shone with truth and purity . "" It was you , "" said the prince , "" who saved my life when I lay dead on the beach , "" and he folded his blushing bride in his arms . "" Oh , I am too happy , "" said he to the little mermaid ; "" my fondest hopes are all fulfilled . You will rejoice at my happiness ; for your devotion to me is great and sincere . "" The little mermaid kissed his hand , and felt as if her heart were already broken . His wedding morning would bring death to her , and she would change into the foam of the sea . All the church bells rung , and the heralds rode about the town proclaiming the betrothal . Perfumed oil was burning in costly silver lamps on every altar . The priests waved the censers , while the bride and bridegroom joined their hands and received the blessing of the bishop . The little mermaid , dressed in silk and gold , held up the bride's train ; but her ears heard nothing of the festive music , and her eyes saw not the holy ceremony ; she thought of the night of death which was coming to her , and of all she had lost in the world . On the same evening the bride and bridegroom went on board ship ; cannons were roaring , flags waving , and in the centre of the ship a costly tent of purple and gold had been erected . It contained elegant couches , for the reception of the bridal pair during the night . The ship , with swelling sails and a favorable wind , glided away smoothly and lightly over the calm sea . When it grew dark a number of colored lamps were lit , and the sailors danced merrily on the deck . The little mermaid could not help thinking of her first rising out of the sea , when she had seen similar festivities and joys ; and she joined in the dance , poised herself in the air as a swallow when he pursues his prey , and all present cheered her with wonder . She had never danced so elegantly before . Her tender feet felt as if cut with sharp knives , but she cared not for it ; a sharper pang had pierced through her heart . She knew this was the last evening she should ever see the prince , for whom she had forsaken her kindred and her home ; she had given up her beautiful voice , and suffered unheard-of pain daily for him , while he knew nothing of it . This was the last evening that she would breathe the same air with him , or gaze on the starry sky and the deep sea ; an eternal night , without a thought or a dream , awaited her : she had no soul and now she could never win one . All was joy and gayety on board ship till long after midnight ; she laughed and danced with the rest , while the thoughts of death were in her heart . The prince kissed his beautiful bride , while she played with his raven hair , till they went arm-in-arm to rest in the splendid tent . Then all became still on board the ship ; the helmsman , alone awake , stood at the helm . The little mermaid leaned her white arms on the edge of the vessel , and looked towards the east for the first blush of morning , for that first ray of dawn that would bring her death . She saw her sisters rising out of the flood : they were as pale as herself ; but their long beautiful hair waved no more in the wind , and had been cut off . "" We have given our hair to the witch , "" said they , "" to obtain help for you , that you may not die to-night . She has given us a knife : here it is , see it is very sharp . Before the sun rises you must plunge it into the heart of the prince ; when the warm blood falls upon your feet they will grow together again , and form into a fish's tail , and you will be once more a mermaid , and return to us to live out your three hundred years before you die and change into the salt sea foam . Haste , then ; he or you must die before sunrise . Our old grandmother moans so for you , that her white hair is falling off from sorrow , as ours fell under the witch's scissors . Kill the prince and come back ; hasten : do you not see the first red streaks in the sky ? In a few minutes the sun will rise , and you must die . "" And then they sighed deeply and mournfully , and sank down beneath the waves . The little mermaid drew back the crimson curtain of the tent , and beheld the fair bride with her head resting on the prince's breast . She bent down and kissed his fair brow , then looked at the sky on which the rosy dawn grew brighter and brighter ; then she glanced at the sharp knife , and again fixed her eyes on the prince , who whispered the name of his bride in his dreams . She was in his thoughts , and the knife trembled in the hand of the little mermaid : then she flung it far away from her into the waves ; the water turned red where it fell , and the drops that spurted up looked like blood . She cast one more lingering , half-fainting glance at the prince , and then threw herself from the ship into the sea , and thought her body was dissolving into foam . The sun rose above the waves , and his warm rays fell on the cold foam of the little mermaid , who did not feel as if she were dying . She saw the bright sun , and all around her floated hundreds of transparent beautiful beings ; she could see through them the white sails of the ship , and the red clouds in the sky ; their speech was melodious , but too ethereal to be heard by mortal ears , as they were also unseen by mortal eyes . The little mermaid perceived that she had a body like theirs , and that she continued to rise higher and higher out of the foam . "" Where am I ? "" asked she , and her voice sounded ethereal , as the voice of those who were with her ; no earthly music could imitate it . "" Among the daughters of the air , "" answered one of them . "" A mermaid has not an immortal soul , nor can she obtain one unless she wins the love of a human being . On the power of another hangs her eternal destiny . But the daughters of the air , although they do not possess an immortal soul , can , by their good deeds , procure one for themselves . We fly to warm countries , and cool the sultry air that destroys mankind with the pestilence . We carry the perfume of the flowers to spread health and restoration . After we have striven for three hundred years to all the good in our power , we receive an immortal soul and take part in the happiness of mankind . You , poor little mermaid , have tried with your whole heart to do as we are doing ; you have suffered and endured and raised yourself to the spirit-world by your good deeds ; and now , by striving for three hundred years in the same way , you may obtain an immortal soul . "" The little mermaid lifted her glorified eyes towards the sun , and felt them , for the first time , filling with tears . On the ship , in which she had left the prince , there were life and noise ; she saw him and his beautiful bride searching for her ; sorrowfully they gazed at the pearly foam , as if they knew she had thrown herself into the waves . Unseen she kissed the forehead of her bride , and fanned the prince , and then mounted with the other children of the air to a rosy cloud that floated through the aether . "" After three hundred years , thus shall we float into the kingdom of heaven , "" said she . "" And we may even get there sooner , "" whispered one of her companions . "" Unseen we can enter the houses of men , where there are children , and for every day on which we find a good child , who is the joy of his parents and deserves their love , our time of probation is shortened . The child does not know , when we fly through the room , that we smile with joy at his good conduct , for we can count one year less of our three hundred years . But when we see a naughty or a wicked child , we shed tears of sorrow , and for every tear a day is added to our time of trial ! """	Prose/Lyrical
967	You can use the Body Mass Index to find out if you 're a healthy weight for your height If your BMI is less than 18.4 you are underweight for your height . If your BMI is between 18.5 and 24.9 you 're an ideal weight for your height . If your BMI is between 25 and 29.9 you 're over the ideal weight for your height . If your BMI is between 30 and 39.9 you 're obese . If your BMI is over 40 you 're very obese . This is general advice for adults only ; it does not apply to children , pregnant women , older people or anyone with a long-term health condition . If you 're a weight-trainer or an athlete this BMI may not be accurate .	Instruction
924	"A Gladsome Meeting . Some hours before dawn Robin Gore came to an abrupt pause , and looking over his shoulder , held up his hand to command silence . Then he pointed to a small mound , on the top of which a faint glow of light was seen falling on the boughs of the shrubs with which it was crowned . The moon had just set , but there was sufficient light left to render surrounding objects pretty distinct . "" That 's them , "" said Robin to Walter , in a low whisper , as the latter came close to his side ; "" no doubt they 're sound asleep , an ' I 'm puzzled how to wake ' em up without givin ' ' em a fright . "" "" Musha ! it 's a fright that Wapaw will give us , av we start him suddenly , for he 's murtherin ' quick wi ' his rifle , "" whispered Larry . "" We 'd better hide and then give a howl , "" suggested Stiff , "" an ' , after they 're sot up , bring ' em down with a familiar hail . "" The deliberations of the party were out short and rendered unnecessary , however , by Wapaw himself . That sharp-eared red man had been startled by the breaking of a branch which Larry O ' Dowd chanced to set his foot on , and , before Robin had observed their fire , he had roused Roy and Nelly and hurried with them to the summit of a rocky eminence , from which stronghold they now anxiously watched the proceedings of the hunters . The spot to which they had fled for refuge was almost impregnable , and might have been held for hours by a couple of resolute men against a host of savages . Robin , after a little further consultation , resolved to send the Black Swan in advance to reconnoitre . This he did , contrary to his wonted custom of taking the lead in everything , because of an unaccountable feeling of dread lest he should not find his children there . Black Swan at once stepped cautiously forward with his rifle , ready cocked , in the hollow of his left arm , and his finger on the trigger-guard . Step by step he moved towards the encampment without making the slightest noise , and with so little motion that he might easily have been mistaken for a dark shadow . Raising his head over the edge of the encampment he gazed earnestly into it , then he advanced another pace or two , finally he stepped into it , and , standing erect , looked around him . With a wave of his hand he summoned his comrades to advance . Robin Gore's heart beat hard as he approached , followed by the others . Meanwhile they were closely watched by Roy and Wapaw . When the Black Swan's head appeared , Roy exclaimed in a whisper , "" An Injun--d ' ye know him , Wapaw ? "" "" He is one of our tribe , I think , "" replied the Indian , in the same low voice , "" but I know him not ; the light of the fire is not strong . "" "" If he 's one o ' your tribe , "" said Roy , "" it 's all up with us , for they wo n't be long o ' findin ' us here . Keep close to me , Nell . I 'll stick by you , lass , do n't fear . "" Wapaw's brows lowered when he saw the Black Swan step into the encampment , and make the signal to his comrades to advance . He raised his rifle , and took deliberate aim at his heart . "" Roy , "" he whispered , "" get an arrow ready , aim at the next man that steps into the light and let fly ; I 'll not fire till after you , for the smoke would blind you . "" Roy obeyed with a trembling hand . Notwithstanding the rough life he had led in those wild woods of the West , he had never yet been called on to lift his hand against a human being , and the thought of taking life in this deliberate and almost murderous way caused him to shudder ; still he felt that their case was desperate , and he nerved himself to the deed . Another moment , and Robin stood beside the Black Swan . Roy tried to raise his bow , but his heart failed him . Wapaw glanced at him , and said sternly -- "" Shoot first . "" At that moment Obadiah Stiff stepped into the encampment , and , stirring the embers of the fire with a piece of stick , caused a bright flame and showers of sparks to shoot upwards . This revealed the fact that some of the party were white men , so Wapaw lowered his rifle . A single glance of his practised eye told him who they were . Laying his hand suddenly and heavily on Roy's shoulder he pressed him down . "" Come , let us go , "" he said quickly ; "" I must see these men alone , and you must keep close--you must not look . "" He said the latter words with emphasis ; but in order to make sure that they should not have a chance of looking , he led his young companions to a point whence the encampment could not be seen , and left them there with strict injunctions not to quit the spot until he should return . In a few seconds Wapaw stepped into the circle of light where Robin and his party were all assembled , and so rapid and noiseless had his movement been , that he was in the midst of them almost before they were aware of his approach . "" Wapaw ! "" exclaimed Walter in surprise , "" why , you seem to have dropped from the clouds . "" "" Sure it 's a ghost ye must be , "" cried Larry . The Indian took no notice of these remarks , but turned to Robin , who , with a look of deep anxiety , said -- "" Have ' ee seed the childer , Wapaw ? "" "" They are safe , "" answered the Indian . "" Thank God for that ! "" cried Robin , while a sigh of relief burst from him : "" I believe ye , Wapaw , yer a true man an ' would n't tell me a lie , would ye ? "" The tone in which the hunter said this implied that the statement was scarcely a true index to his feelings , and that he would be glad to hear Wapaw assure him that he was indeed telling the truth . But this Indian was a man of truthfulness , and did not deem it necessary to repeat his assertion . He said , however , that he would go and fetch the children , and immediately quitted the camp . Soon after he returned with Roy and Nelly ; he had not told them , however , who the strangers were . When Roy first caught sight of his father he gave a shout of surprise , and stood still as if he were bewildered . Nelly uttered a wild scream , and rushed forward with outstretched arms . Robin met her more than half way , and the next moment folded his long-lost little one to his bosom . | Next chapter | | Previous chapter | | Contents | Created from a nineteenth or early twentieth century text by Athelstane E-Texts"	Prose/Lyrical
781	This indicator shows the energy used in agriculture in the UK and that generated from renewable agricultural sources . Direct and indirect energy use in agriculture Chart 4.07 a shows the energy used directly on farm . Petajoules ( PJ : joules x10 15 ) are used for comparison between different sources of energy . - Total direct energy has fallen by 40 % since 1995 . - Petrol use has declined from 64 % to 28 % of the total direct energy used since 1995 . - The use of electricity has increased from 23 % of the total in 1995 to 40 % in 2004 . Chart 4.07 b shows the energy used indirectly in agriculture , such as in the manufacturing of fertilisers , pesticides and animal feed . - Total indirect energy use has fallen by 11 % since 1995 and 20 % since 1985 . - In 2004 fertilisers accounted for 51 % of indirect energy use ( 61 % in 1985 ) . - The energy used in the manufacturing of fertilisers has fallen by 18 % since 1995 and 33 % since 1985 , in part due to energy efficiency savings . - In 2004 pesticides accounted for 13 % of indirect energy use . The energy used in the manufacture of pesticides for 2004 has increased by 19 % since 2003 . On farm and biomass generation Chart 4.07 c shows the electricity generated from farm waste and biomass , and the heat generated on farm by burning straw , in thousands tonnes of oil equivalent ( TOE ) . - On farm generation of heat has remained fairly level since 1990 . - The generation of electricity from farm waste and biomass remained at around 68,000 TOE between 1993 and 1998 . - Electricity generation has increased by around 400 % to 353,000 TOE over the last 10 years . - Electricity generation from farm waste and biomass increased by 2.5 % from 345,000 TOE in 2003 to 353,000 TOE in 2004 .	Information/Explanation
906	She dropped it into the flame . For a while , she stood with her back to Henry , leaning on the mantel-piece , and looking into the fire . He took the chair to which she had pointed , with a strange contradiction of expression in his face : the tears were in his eyes , while the brows above were knit close in an angry frown . He muttered to himself , ' Damn him ! ' She rallied her courage , and looked at him again when she spoke . ' Well , Henry , and why are you going away ? ' ' I am out of spirits , Agnes , and I want a change . ' She paused before she spoke again . His face told her plainly that he was thinking of her when he made that reply . She was grateful to him , but her mind was not with him : her mind was still with the man who had deserted her . She turned round again to the fire . ' Is it true , ' she asked , after a long silence , ' that they have been married to-day ? ' He answered ungraciously in the one necessary word : -- ' Yes . ' ' Did you go to the church ? ' He resented the question with an expression of indignant surprise . ' Go to the church ? ' he repeated . ' I would as soon go to -- ' He checked himself there . ' How can you ask ? ' he added in lower tones . ' I have never spoken to Montbarry , I have not even seen him , since he treated you like the scoundrel and the fool that he is . ' She looked at him suddenly , without saying a word . He understood her , and begged her pardon . But he was still angry . ' The reckoning comes to some men , ' he said , ' even in this world . He will live to rue the day when he married that woman ! ' Agnes took a chair by his side , and looked at him with a gentle surprise . ' Is it quite reasonable to be so angry with her , because your brother preferred her to me ? ' she asked . Henry turned on her sharply . ' Do you defend the Countess , of all the people in the world ? ' ' Why not ? ' Agnes answered . ' I know nothing against her . On the only occasion when we met , she appeared to be a singularly timid , nervous person , looking dreadfully ill ; and being indeed so ill that she fainted under the heat of my room . Why should we not do her justice ? We know that she was innocent of any intention to wrong me ; we know that she was not aware of my engagement -- ' Henry lifted his hand impatiently , and stopped her . ' There is such a thing as being too just and too forgiving ! ' he interposed . ' I ca n't bear to hear you talk in that patient way , after the scandalously cruel manner in which you have been treated . Try to forget them both , Agnes . I wish to God I could help you to do it ! ' Agnes laid her hand on his arm . ' You are very good to me , Henry ; but you do n't quite understand me . I was thinking of myself and my trouble in quite a different way , when you came in . I was wondering whether anything which has so entirely filled my heart , and so absorbed all that is best and truest in me , as my feeling for your brother , can really pass away as if it had never existed . I have destroyed the last visible things that remind me of him . In this world I shall see him no more . But is the tie that once bound us , completely broken ? Am I as entirely parted from the good and evil fortune of his life as if we had never met and never loved ? What do you think , Henry ? I can hardly believe it . ' ' If you could bring the retribution on him that he has deserved , ' Henry Westwick answered sternly , ' I might be inclined to agree with you . ' As that reply passed his lips , the old nurse appeared again at the door , announcing another visitor .	Prose/Lyrical
1561	C-evo Contents C-evo ( a.k.a. Civilization-evolution ) is a free-to-play game similar to Civilization II . The game was written in the Delphi programming language , with the main programming done by Steffen Gerlach . The source code is in the public domain , but the graphics are freeware . A successful player manages to find a balance among these choices . The game starts with the development of the wheel , and ends when the first player has successfully constructed the first off-planet spaceship headed out into the Solar System . As the game progresses , the player finds that the building of factories , for example , leads to increased pollution , which must be cleaned up and could be eliminated through development of cleaner technologies . At all stages , cities that grow larger than size 4 have reduced productivity because of unrest until suitable buildings or police are in place to keep the populace under control . Examining a city screen selected from the cities menu at an advanced stage of the game In addition to the standard AI that comes with C-Evo , a number of different AI's ( programs that play C-Evo ) with different strategies are available for C-Evo ; most of the following links are direct links to the zipped files to download : As with the commercial and the other free civ games , there are a variety of strategies possible , though the ultimate launch of a spaceship is the only way of officially winning . The game goes through several somewhat distinct phases , based on the advances a player has researched : Given that the AIs are supposed to operate in a range of map sizes and unknown environments ( sea / land , hostile / friendly opponents ) they often have different counter-strategies for each ( overlapping ) phase . eXpand - . often an early ( aggressive ) land-grab where each nation tries to stake out as much territory as possible eXchange - given that AIs have same standing as humans , they are allowed to form alliances and trade amongst themselves ( money , tech , unit designs , information ) eXploit - once the terrirtories / borders are firmly established , develop the cities and build an advantage , sometimes polishing off weak opponents if opportunity arises . eXtinguish - the end-game relies on achieving the primary objective of assembling components for a spacecraft and more importantly surviving long enough to do so , which often involves conquering strong enemies . On the C-evo webpage , the game , its source code , AI modules , player contributions such as many additional nations , maps , mods , and utilities are available . The game has an open AI interface , which means the player can replace the standard AI contained in the package with other AI algorithms , either for all nations or for individual nations . The documentation of the AI's DLL-interface is available from the project homepage . There is also an AI development kit . C-evo by design , is completely deterministic : Its only randomness lies in what the map looks like , where each player starts and what the player ( s ) choose to do . There are no random events , goodie-huts , or random rewards for exploration . C-evo by design , says AIs play by the same rules as humans and therefore AIs can not cheat or bend the rules to favor themselves . However , one may set any of the 15 players to an easier or harder level at the start of the game and may edit the map to set AI and human starting positions . C-evo by design , says military unit designs must be created by a player and then researched before that unit can be built . One must strategically choose what qualities ( for example : mobility , attack power , defense , etc. ) will be built into the units before designing and building them . In contrast to Civilization II , a player can not immediately gain the advances acquired from other nations or the Great Library : a reduced amount of research is still necessary to achieve the new technology . In contrast to Civilization II , a player does not acquire knowledge from capturing a city unless that player possesses the Temple of Zeus Wonder and it is still active ( or obsolete but restored with the Eiffel Tower Wonder ) . In contrast to Civilization II , irrigation does not require the connection to a nearby sea or river , irrigation may be built on any qualifying tile anywhere . In contrast to Civilization II , a diagonal step requires 1.5 movement points . All units have at least 1.5 points possible , the most primitive ships have 2.5 , and the most primitive aircraft have 4.5 . In C-evo , a new city does not gain trade resources or contribute to research until it has at least a town hall or courthouse built . In C-evo , a stealth aircraft is hidden and can not be attacked unless your own spy or stealth aircraft has uncovered it in that turn , in which case your other planes can attack it . In C-evo , building a spaceship requires scarce modern resources , and without access to the territories containing these resources , as well as the advancements to see or use these resources , the game can not be won . C-evo HowTo - A How To guide for playing C-evo geared for someone who has never played any of the Civilization games before ( recommended reading even for those who have , because C-evo is NOT exactly like Civ2 ) . C-evo wiki forum - An alternative to the official C-evo forum , primarily for discussing content of this wiki , but open to all questions and ideas and more easily searchable than the official forum .	Information/Explanation
1341	As anyone will tell you the key to success is to KNOW HOW TO DRESS Well-dressed tires and trim make the car . From the die hard professional to the enthusiast looking to apply the most even coat of dressing to a tire , or a premium coat of trim gel to the trim or even a nice applicator for hard to apply leather seats . the Chemical Guys Tire and Trim applicator is made out of DuraFoam Memory foam to form to form to the surface you are working with for superior application that spread evenly delivering unparalleled results without ever wasting product . The easy-grip ergonomic shape makes holding his premium applicator a pleasure while the close pored durafoam makes this applicator awesome . The premium ergonomic design also protects your fingers and nails from grease , grime , dirt , and all other crap ! Yup we said it crap ! And it felt good . The Tire & Trim Applicator thankfully takes the mess out of the dress . Sturdy , durable foam is securely housed in a palm-sized , rectangular handle with finger grooves to eliminate slippage . This particular grade of foam was selected for smooth , even application without dripping . The design of the applicator makes it easy to control and target specific areas . Achieving good-looking tires have never been easier or cleaner . This applicator also is terrific for attending to your trim .	Promotion
1635	"Electrical engineers at the University of California , San Diego will lead a six-university effort to enable troops to set up mobile communications networks on the battlefield , using lightweight wireless equipment during commando raids and in other hostile and rapidly changing environments . The project to develop "" space-time processing for tactical mobile ad-hoc networks "" will receive approximately $ 3 million in funding over three years from the U.S. Department of Defense , which will have the option to extend funding to $ 5 . 25 million over five years . The project for the U.S. Army is one of 31 approved last week by DoD's Multidisciplinary Research Initiative ( MURI ) program , a $ 146 million , five-year effort targeting topics of "" exceptional opportunity "" for DoD technologies and applications . "" MURI topics have very aggressive technical goals for objectives that can not be accomplished with existing technologies , "" said James Zeidler , principal investigator on the project and a research scientist and senior lecturer in the Electrical and Computer Engineering department of UCSD's Jacobs School of Engineering . "" We are developing some fundamentally new concepts and approaches , and it will be a very exciting project . "" Ad-hoc networks form when communications peers find each other without the benefit of centralized network control systems . Deployment is vastly more complicated in fluid tactical situations where special challenges emerge , and where the price of dropped communications can mean loss of life and mission failure . Among the difficulties : peers must stay in touch while having to move around , maintain stealth , and avoid enemy jamming and eaves-dropping attempts . The network must sustain itself when communications partners go out of range or are damaged or destroyed . Noted Zeidler : "" The technology could also be useful to firefighters , police , and other responders to emergencies such as fires , earthquakes , or terrorist attacks that have knocked out pre-existing communications infrastructure . "" Equipment that would be used in a tactical ad-hoc network ranges from mobile radios mounted in backpacks , laptops , and hand-held computers to antennae mounted on vehicles such as tanks and Humvees that come and go , and even airborne relays to route data to and from command and control bases and headquarters . New technology would improve wireless battlefield communi-cations for soldiers such as this U.S. Army paratrooper in Fallujah , Iraq , February 2004 . ( Photo Courtesy of U.S. Army ) One target of innovation for the project is the network protocol suite , a reference to the many programs used to manage communications . These typically are grouped into discrete steps or layers , an arrangement that robs a network of an ability to adapt to changing conditions . One goal of the project is to set up a cross-layer algorithm that will enable the different layers to join together in decisions , for example to decide to rotate an antenna in response to lagging signal strength , or to rapidly switch partners in response to movement . The team will also explore the use of new antenna technology , coding , and error-correction systems . One focus will be multiple-input / multiple-output ( MIMO ) devices endowed with multiple antennas . This is new technology that shows great potential for enabling communications in less than optimum circumstances . In a recent study by Brian Banister , one of Zeidler's graduate student researchers , a ten-fold boost in channel capacity was achieved using an eight-fold asymmetric MIMO channel compared to a one-way channel , given the same signal-to-noise ratios on each channel . MIMO devices format signals using space-time coding , where the receiver analyzes positional differences between pieces of a signal and the timing of the signal's arrival when decoding messages . The funding will support the work of faculty and graduate students on the UCSD campus , including at the Center for Wireless Communications ( CWC ) and the California Institute of Telecommunications and Information Technology [ Cal - ( IT ) 2 ] . Four Jacobs School electrical and computer engineering faculty will work with Zeidler on the project : Rene Cruz , Larry Milstein , John Proakis , and Bhaskar Rao . Research faculty at other locations include UC Irvine's Hamid Jafarkhani ; J.J. Garcia-Luna-Aceves at UC Santa Cruz ; Yingbo Hua and Srikanth Krishnamurthy at UC Riverside ; as well as A. Lee Swindlehurst and Michael Jensen at Brigham Young University . Additional funding from the Canadian Defense Research establishment will underwrite research by professor Simon Haykin at McMaster University in Hamilton in Ontario , Canada . Michele Zorzi of the University of Padua , Italy has collaborated with Professors Cruz and Krishnamurthy on numerous publications in this technical area , and will also participate in this project as a visiting professor at UCSD ."	News
1032	"1999 No. 283 ( N.I. 1 ) The Departments ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1999 Made 10th February 1999 Title and commencement 1 . -- ( 1 ) This Order may be cited as the Departments ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1999 . ( 2 ) Subject to paragraph ( 3 ) , this Order shall come into operation on such day as the Secretary of State may by order appoint F001 . ( 3 ) Article 8 and the repeal by this Order of section 4 of the M2 Ministries Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1944 shall come into operation on the day following the day appointed by an Order in Council under section 3 of the M3 Northern Ireland Act 1998 for the commencement of Parts II and III of that Act . Interpretation 2 . -- ( 1 ) The M4 Interpretation Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1954 shall apply to Article 1 and the following provisions of this Order as it applies to a Measure of the Northern Ireland Assembly . ( 2 ) In this Order -- "" department "" means a Northern Ireland department ; "" Minister "" , in relation to a department , means -- ( a ) in the case of the Office of the First Minister and deputy First Minister , the First Minister and the deputy First Minister acting jointly ; ( b ) in the case of any other department , the Minister in charge of that department ; "" statutory provision "" has the meaning assigned to it by section 1 ( f ) of the M5 Interpretation Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1954 . ( 3 ) References in this Order to a senior officer of a department are references to a person who is employed in that department and is -- ( a ) a member of the Northern Ireland senior civil service ; or ( b ) a member of the Northern Ireland civil service designated by the department as a senior officer for the purposes of this Order . ( 4 ) If , and to the extent that , a determination under section 19 of the M6 Northern Ireland Act 1998 so provides , the functions exercisable under this Order by a senior officer of a department shall also be exercisable by a junior Minister ; but nothing in this Order authorises ajunior Minister to exercise functions otherwise than in accordance with the terms of such a determination . The Northern Ireland departments 3 . -- ( 1 ) There shall be established departments to be known as -- ( a ) the Office of the First Minister and deputy First Minister ; ( b ) the Department of Culture , Arts and Leisure ; ( c ) the Department of Higher and Further Education , Training and Employment ; ( d ) the Department for Regional Development ; and ( e ) the Department for Social Development . ( 2 ) The Office of the First Minister and deputy First Minister shall be in the charge of the First Minister and the deputy First Minister acting jointly . ( 3 ) The departments in existence immediately before the coming into operation of this Article shall continue in existence and , subject to paragraphs ( 4 ) to ( 7 ) , shall continue to be known by the same names as immediately before that time . ( 4 ) The Department of Agriculture for Northern Ireland shall be renamed the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development . ( 5 ) The Department of Economic Development shall be renamed the Department of Enterprise , Trade and Investment . ( 6 ) The Department of Health and Social Services for Northern Ireland shall be renamed the Department of Health , Social Services and Public Safety . ( 7 ) Where the words "" for Northern Ireland "" form part of the name of any other department to which paragraph ( 3 ) applies , those words shall be omitted from the name of that department . ( 8 ) Accordingly , as from the coming into operation of this Article , there shall be the departments set out in Schedule 1 . ( 9 ) The following provisions of this Order apply in relation to the departments set out in Schedule 1 . Exercise of functions of a department 4 . -- ( 1 ) The functions of a department shall at all times be exercised subject to the direction and control of the Minister . ( 2 ) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph ( 1 ) , the Minister may in pursuance of that paragraph -- ( a ) distribute the business of a department among the officers of the department in such manner as he thinks fit ; ( b ) by Minute laid before the Assembly assign any specified functions of the department to such officers of the department as he may determine under such designation as he may determine . ( 3 ) Subject to the provisions of this Order , any functions of a department may be exercised by -- ( a ) the Minister ; or ( b ) a senior officer of the department . ( 4 ) Subject to paragraph ( 5 ) , in carrying out its functions a department shall adopt and use the name and seal of the department . ( 5 ) The Minister may authorise the use of a special designation by any officers to whom any functions have been assigned under paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) . ( 6 ) Nothing in this Order affects the operation of any statutory provision or rule of law which authorises or requires any functions of a department to be exercised in a particular manner or by particular persons . Status of department , etc. 5 . -- ( 1 ) A department shall be a body corporate . ( 2 ) A department shall have the capacity to acquire and hold land for the purposes of its functions . ( 3 ) The expenses of a department shall , to such extent as the Department of Finance and Personnel may determine , be defrayed out of moneys appropriated by Act of the Assembly . The seal of a department 6 . -- ( 1 ) A department shall have an official seal which shall be officially and judicially noticed . ( 2 ) The application of the seal of a department shall be authenticated by the signature of -- ( a ) the Minister ; or ( b ) a senior officer of that department . Evidence of acts of department 7 . -- ( 1 ) Every document purporting to be issued by a department and -- ( a ) to be sealed with the seal of the department authenticated as provided by Article 6 ( 2 ) ; or ( b ) to be signed by the Minister or a senior officer of the department or other officer of the department authorised by the Minister in that behalf , shall be received in evidence and be deemed to be such a document without further proof , unless the contrary is shown . ( 2 ) A certificate signed by -- ( a ) the Minister ; or ( b ) a senior officer of a department , that a document purporting to be issued by the department is so issued shall be conclusive evidence of the facts so certified . ( 3 ) The M7 Documentary Evidence Act 1868 , as amended by the M8 Documentary Evidence Act 1882 , shall apply to a department as if -- ( a ) the department were mentioned in the first column of the Schedule to the Act of 1868 and the Minister or a senior officer of the department were mentioned in the second column of that Schedule ; ( b ) the regulations referred to in those Acts included any document issued by the department . Power to transfer or assign functions 8 . -- ( 1 ) The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly may by order -- ( a ) assign to any department ; or ( b ) transfer to any department from any other department , such functions as appear to them to be appropriate for such assignment or transfer . ( 2 ) An order under this Article may make provision -- ( a ) for the amendment or repeal of any statutory provision ; ( b ) for the transfer of any assets and liabilities enjoyed or incurred by any department in connection with any functions transferred ; ( c ) for the carrying on and completion by or on behalf of a department of anything commenced by or on behalf of any other department before a transfer of functions takes place ; ( d ) for changing the name by which a department is to be known ; ( e ) for the substitution of the name of a department for the name of any other department in any document or legal proceedings issued or commenced before the date on which the transfer of functions or change of name takes place ; ( f ) for such other incidental , consequential , transitional or supplementary matters as are necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the order . ( 3 ) A certificate issued by a department that any assets or liabilities have been transferred to it by an order under this Article shall be conclusive evidence of that fact . ( 4 ) An order under this Article shall be subject to affirmative resolution . ( 5 ) Nothing in this Order shall affect the continued operation of any Order in Council or order made under section 4 of the M9 Ministries Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1944 which has effect immediately before the coming into operation of this Article . ( 6 ) In this Article references to a department include references to the Minister of the department . Article 9--Amendments and repeals SCHEDULES SCHEDULE 1 Article 3 . THE NORTHERN IRELAND DEPARTMENTS The Office of the First Minister and deputy First Minister The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development The Department of Culture , Arts and Leisure The Department of Education The Department of Enterprise , Trade and Investment The Department of the Environment The Department of Finance and Personnel The Department of Health , Social Services and Public Safety The Department of Higher and Further Education , Training and Employment The Department for Regional Development The Department for Social Development"	Legal
970	If you are working and are sick for four or more days in a row , you should be entitled to Statutory Sick Pay ( SSP ) from your employer for up to 28 weeks in any sick spell or series of linked sick spells . You will be entitled to SSP only if , before your sickness spell , your average weekly earnings started at or above the lower earnings limit at which National Insurance ( NI ) contributions become payable . SSP is the legal minimum that your employer has to pay , but your work contract may provide better conditions , so check your company's sick pay arrangements . You must tell your employer that you are sick and produce a certificate after seven days . You can get this from your GP . Your employer will then pay your SSP to you in the same way as your salary . If you are still sick after 28 weeks you can claim Incapacity Benefit . You can find out more from the Department for Work and Pensions website link below .	Instruction
1233	"Aereo catches over-the-air TV material that 's show completely free and flows it to users' pcs and devices for a regular monthly subscription fee . TV and show companies have actually been combating Aereo tooth and nail , and recently they petitioned the Supreme Court to quit Aereo in its tracks . Last night , it was revealed that the NFL and MLB submitted an amicus short last week urging the High court to agree journalists against Aereo . ' Technical chicanery ' The disagreement versus Aereo is in part that content copyright owners must license networks and journalists to re-transmit their programming , however Aereo asserts its streaming material is not technically a re-broadcast . The business contends it 's actually an exclusive program since each client's content is transmitted independently . Journalists do n't see it in this way , and the NFL and MLB see Aereo as a threat to their business design . "" If copyright holders shed their unique retransmission licensing rights and the substantial benefits derived from those rights when they put programming on broadcast terminals , those terminals will certainly come to be less eye-catching mediums for dispersing copyrighted content , "" the organizations' attorneys filled in the amicus short . And here 's the not-so-thinly-veiled threat : "" The alternative for copyright holders will be to relocate that content to paid cable networks ( such as ESPN and TNT ) where Aereo-like firms could not hijack and exploit their programs without permission , "" the brief continued . The MLB and NFL focused on the federal implications of this instance , and clarified that together they account for about $ ONE HUNDRED thousand of the $ 300 thousand that broadcasters gather in licensing fees general . "" The court's interference is now essential to bring back quality and surety around and to avoid the unraveling of marketplace created after the licensing of civil liberties instead of the expropriation of such rights via technological chicanery , "" their mission stated , with potentially the best-ever use of the word "" chicanery . "" Barking and biting Confronted with Aereo's unwarranted web re-broadcasting of over-the-air TV signals , the two significant sports organizations are n't the only teams who 've endangered to take their balls and go residence . Fox provided comparable dangers back in April , and various other broadcasters , consisting of CBS , have endangered radical measures , as well . On the other hand , Aereo continues increasing , and the solution is now readily available on Android and in cities throughout the United States ."	News
1264	"According to Ryan Roslansky in a post on LinkedIn's blog , as of Jun . 29 , 2012 , no longer have their tweets automatically post on their LinkedIn pages ; however , status updates posted on LinkedIn will continue to post automatically in their Twitter feeds . This change may have come about as the result of other changes going on at Twitter , specifically , the introduction of expanded tweets . Michael Sippey , in a post on Twitter's blog , announced the advent of "" Twitter cards , "" which are "" an important step toward where we are heading with our platform , which involves creating new opportunities to build engaging experiences into Twitter . "" Twitter expects all of these changes to improve its users' experiences with the platform . It probably does n't feel that way to marketers , recruiters and other professionals who make heavy use of Twitter and LinkedIn to connect with clients , prospects or job applicants through strategic tweets and links to relevant content . For them , it may just feel like extra work ."	News
1394	"Visit the COSEE Alaska Center for information about publications and workshops , multimedia , and educator resources . COSEE Alaska has pioneered an ambitious collaborative resource called SEANET - an information network of individuals and organizations who communicate about research in Alaska's seas . Check out SEANET's Featured Resources , which is organized and searchable by topics and sub-topics related to Alaska Ocean Climate Change , Alaska Marine Ecosystems , Strategies for Education and Outreach , K-12 Resources , COSEE Presentations , and COSEE Publications and Reports . Make an account with SEANET to gain access to photos , videos , forums , and the events page . The Environmental Education Week 2011 theme is Ocean Connections . In celebration of this theme , the Earth Day network developed five lesson plans on the ocean and oil spills . These interdisciplinary lessons correlate with national content standards in science , social studies , and math . Activities may also be adpated for use with older or younger students . Download the ocean lesson plans or check out the oil spill lesson plan to learn more . For day-by-day age-specific learning activities , head to the EE Week 2011 : Ocean Connections Toolkit . The JOIDES Resolution is a scientific research vessel that drills core samples and collects data from beneath the ocean floor , helping scientists to understand the earth's development . The website includes teacher resources as well as a unique professional development opportunity for educators called Teacher at Sea , where educators learn hands-on shipboard science . Another resource educators can take advantage of is requesting a Live Video Broadcast that allows students to connect with the scientists aboard the JOIDES Resolution research vessel . YouthGo is an effort launched by the U.S. Department of the Interior with the aim of providing activities and learning opportunities that will instill a conservation ethic in young people . Many of their educational resources and activities are relevant to ocean literacy , such as the Ecosystem Health curriculum called "" From the Forest to the Sea , "" which includes activities that were developed in southeast Alaska ( tip : press CTRL + F and type in "" Alaska "" to find relevant pages in the pdf ) . Also check out the Migration Science of Shorebirds , the Wetlands Mapper , and more . Use the dropdown menu on the right-hand side of the YouthGo education site to filter activities by grade or type ."	Promotion
174	"So I want to talk today about an idea . It 's a big idea . Actually , I think it 'll eventually be seen as probably the single biggest idea that 's emerged in the past century . It 's the idea of computation . Now , of course , that idea has brought us all of the computer technology we have today and so on . But there 's actually a lot more to computation than that . It 's really a very deep , very powerful , very fundamental idea , whose effects we 've only just begun to see . Well , I myself have spent the past 30 years of my life working on three large projects that really try to take the idea of computation seriously . So I started off at a young age as a physicist using computers as tools . Then , I started sort of drilling down , thinking about the computations I might want to do , trying to figure out what primitives they could be built up from and how they could be automated as much as possible . Eventually , I created a whole structure based on symbolic programming and so on that let me build Mathematica . And for the past 23 years , at an increasing rate , we 've been pouring more and more ideas and capabilities and so on into Mathematica , and I 'm happy to say that 's led to many good things in R and D and education , lots of other areas . Well , I have to admit , actually , that I also had a very selfish reason for building Mathematica . I wanted to use it myself , a bit like Galileo got to use his telescope 400 years ago . But I wanted to look , not at the astronomical universe , but at the computational universe . So we normally think of programs as being complicated things that we build for very specific purposes . But what about the space of all possible programs ? Here 's a representation of a really simple program . So , if we run this program , this is what we get . Very simple . So let 's try changing the rule for this program a little bit . Now we get another result , still very simple . Try changing it again . You get something a little bit more complicated , but if we keep running this for awhile , we find out that , although the pattern we get is very intricate , it has a very regular structure . So the question is : Can anything else happen ? Well , we can do a little experiment . Let's just do a little mathematical experiment , try and find out . Let 's just run all possible programs of the particular type that we 're looking at . They 're called cellular automata . You can see a lot of diversity in the behavior here . Most of them do very simple things . But if you look along all these different pictures , at rule number 30 , you start to see something interesting going on . So let 's take a closer look at rule number 30 here . So here it is . We 're just following this very simple rule at the bottom here , but we 're getting all this amazing stuff . It 's not at all what we 're used to , and I must say that , when I first saw this , it came as a huge shock to my intuition , and , in fact , to understand it , I eventually had to create a whole new kind of science . ( Laughter ) This science is different , more general , than the mathematics-based science that we 've had for the past 300 or so years . You know , it 's always seemed like a big mystery how nature , seemingly so effortlessly manages to produce so much that seems to us so complex . Well , I think we 've found its secret . It 's just sampling what 's out there in the computational universe and quite often getting things like Rule 30 or like this . And knowing that , starts to explain a lot of long-standing mysteries in science . It also brings up new issues though , like computational irreducibility . I mean , we 're used to having science let us predict things , but something like this is fundamentally irreducible . The only way to find its outcome is , effectively , just to watch it evolve . It 's connected to , what I call , the principle of computational equivalence , which tells us that even incredibly simple systems can do computations as sophisticated as anything . It does n ' t take lots of technology or biological evolution to be able to do arbitrary computation , just something that happens , naturally , all over the place . Things with rules as simple as these can do it . Well , this has deep implications about the limits of science , about predictability and controllability of things like biological processes or economies , about intelligence in the universe , about questions like free will and about creating technology . You know , working on this science for many years , I kept wondering , "" What will be its first killer app ? "" Well , ever since I was a kid , I 'd been thinking about systematizing knowledge and somehow making it computable . People like Leibniz had wondered about that too 300 years earlier . But I 'd always assumed that to make progress , I 'd essentially have to replicate a whole brain . Well , now I got to thinking : This scientific paradigm of mine suggests something different . And , by the way , I 've now got huge computation capabilities in Mathematica , and I 'm a CEO with some worldly resources to do large , seemingly crazy , projects . So I decided to just try to see how much of the systematic knowledge that 's out there in the world we can make computable . So , it 's been a big , very complex project , which I was not sure was going to work at all . But I 'm happy to say that it 's actually going really well . And last year we were able to release the first website version of Wolfram Alpha . It 's purpose is to be a serious knowledge engine that computes answers to questions . So let 's give it a try . Let 's start off with something really easy . Hope for the best . Very good . Okay . So far so good . ( Laughter ) Let 's try something a little bit harder . Let's say ... Let 's do some mathy thing and with luck it 'll work out the answer and try and tell us some interesting things things about related math . We could ask it something about the real world . Let's say -- I do n't know -- What 's the GDP of Spain ? And it should be able to tell us that . Now we could compute something related to this , let 's say the GDP of Spain divided by , I do n't know , the -- hmmm ... let 's say the revenue of Microsoft . ( Laughter ) The idea is that we can sort of just type this in , this kind of question in however we think of it . So let 's try asking a question , like a health related question . So let 's say we have a lab finding that -- you know , we have an LDL level of 140 for a male aged 50 . So let's type that in , and now Wolfram Alpha will go and use available public health data and try to figure out what part of the population that corresponds to and so on . Or let 's try asking about , I do n't know , the international space station . And what 's happening here is that Wolfram Alpha is not just looking up something ; it 's computing , in real time , where the international space station is right now , at this moment , how fast it 's going and so on . So Wolfram Alpha knows about lots and lots of kinds of things . It 's got by now , pretty good coverage of everything you might find in a standard reference library and so on . But the goal is to go much further and , very broadly , to democratize all of this kind of knowledge , and to try and be an authoritative source in all areas , to be able to compute answers to specific questions that people have , not by searching what other people may have written down before , but by using built in knowledge to compute fresh new answers to specific question . Now , of course , Wolfram Alpha is a monumentally huge , long term project with lots and lots of challenges . For a start , one has to curate a zillion different sources of facts and data , and we built quite a pipeline of Mathematica automation and human domain experts for doing this . But that 's just the beginning . Given raw facts or data to actually answer questions , one has to compute , one has to implement all those methods and models and algorithms and so on that science and other areas have built up over the centuries . Well , even starting from Mathematica , this is still a huge amount of work . So far , there are about 8 million lines of Mathematica code in Wolfram Alpha built by experts from many , many different fields . Well , a crucial idea of Wolfram Alpha is that you can just ask it questions using ordinary human language , which means that we 've got to be able to take all those strange utterances that people type into the input field and understand them . And I must say that I thought that step might just be plain impossible . Two big things happened . First , a bunch of new ideas about linguistics that came from studying the computational universe . And second , the realization that having actual computable knowledge completely changes how one can set about understanding language . And , of course , now with Wolfram Alpha actually out in the wild , we can learn from its actual usage . And , in fact , there 's been an interesting coevolution that 's been going on between Wolfram Alpha and its human users . And it 's really encouraging . Right now , if we look at web queries , more than 80 percent of them get handled successfully the first time . And if you look at things like the iPhone app , the fraction is considerably larger . So , I 'm pretty pleased with it all . But , in many ways , we 're still at the very beginning with Wolfram Alpha . I mean , everything is scaling up very nicely . We 're getting more confident . You can expect to see Wolfram Alpha technology showing up in more and more places , working both with this kind of public data , like on the website , and with private knowledge for people and companies and so on . You know , I 've realized that Wolfram Alpha actually gives one a sort of whole new kind of computing that one can call knowledge-based computing , in which one 's starting , not just from raw computation , but from a vast amount of built-in knowledge . And when one does that , one really changes the economics of delivering computational things , whether it 's on the web or elsewhere . You know , we have a fairly interesting situation right now . On the one hand , we have Mathematica , with its sort of precise , formal language and a huge network of carefully designed capabilities able to get a lot done in just a few lines . Let me show you a couple of examples here . So here 's a trivial piece of Mathematica programming . Here 's something where we 're sort of integrating a bunch of different capabilities here . Here we 'll just create in this line a little user interface that allows us to do something fun there . If you go on , that 's a slightly more complicated program that 's now doing all sorts of algorithmic things and creating user interface and so on . But it 's something that 's very precise stuff . It 's a precise specification with a precise formal language that causes Mathematica to know what to do here . Well , then on the other hand , we have Wolfram Alpha , with all the sort of messiness of the world and human language and so on built into it . So what happens when you put these things together ? I think it 's actually rather wonderful . With Wolfram Alpha inside Mathematica , you can , for example , make precise programs that call on real-world data . Here 's a really simple example . You can also just sort of give vague input and then try and have Wolfram Alpha figure out what you 're talking about . Let 's try this here . But actually I think sort of the most exciting thing about this is that it really gives one the chance to democratize programming . I mean , anyone will be able to just sort of say what they want in plain language , then , the idea is , that Wolfram Alpha will be able to figure out what precise pieces of code can do what they 're asking for and then show them examples that will let them pick what they need to build up bigger and bigger , precise programs . So , sometimes , Wolfram Alpha will be able to do the whole thing immediately and just give back a whole big program that you can then compute with . So here 's a big website where we 've been collecting lots of educational and other demonstrations about lots of kinds of things . So , I do n't know , I 'll show you one example , maybe here . This is just an example of one of these computable documents . This is probably a fairly small piece of Mathematica code that 's able to be run here . Okay . Let 's zoom out again . So , given our new kind of science , is there a general way to use it to make technology ? So , with physical materials , we 're used to kind of going around the world and discovering that particular materials are useful for particular technological purposes and so on . Well , it turns out , we can do very much the same kind of thing in the computational universe . There 's an inexhaustible supply of programs out there . The challenge is to see how to harness them for human purposes . Something like Rule 30 , for example , turns out to be a really good randomness generator . Other simple programs are good models for processes in the natural or social world . And , for example , Wolfram Alpha and Mathematica are actually now full of algorithms that we discovered by searching the computational universe . And , for example , this -- we go back here -- This has become surprisingly popular among composers finding musical forms by searching the computational universe . In a sense , we can use the computational universe to get mass customized creativity . I 'm hoping we can , for example , use that even to get Wolfram Alpha to routinely sort of do invention and discovery on the fly and to find all sorts of wonderful stuff that no engineer and no process of incremental evolution would ever come up with . Well , so , that leads to sort of an ultimate question . Could it be that someplace out there in the computational universe we might find our physical universe ? Perhaps there 's even some quite simple rule , some simple program for our universe . Well , the history of physics would have us believe that the rule for the universe must be pretty complicated . But in the computational universe we 've now seen how rules that are incredibly simple can produce incredibly rich and complex behavior . So could that be what 's going on with our whole universe ? If the rules for the universe are simple , it 's kind of inevitable that they have to be very abstract and very low level , operating , for example , far below the level of space or time , which makes it hard to represent things . But in at least a large class of cases , one can think of the universe as being like some kind of network , which , when it gets big enough , behaves like continuous space in much the same way as having lots of molecules can behave like a continuous fluid . Well , then the universe has to evolve by applying little rules that progressively update this network . And each possible rule , in a sense , corresponds to a candidate universe . Actually , I have n ' t shown these before , but here are a few of the candidate universes that I 've looked at . Some of these are hopeless universes , completely sterile , with other kinds of pathologies like no notion of space , no notion of time , no matter , other problems like that . But the exciting thing that I 've found in the last few years is that you actually do n't have to go very far in the computational universe before you start finding candidate universes that are n ' t obviously not our universe . Here 's the problem : Any serious candidate for our universe , is inevitably full of computational irreducibility , which means that it is irreducibly difficult to find out how it will really behave , and whether it matches our physical universe . A few years ago , I was pretty excited to discover that there are candidate universes with incredibly simple rules that successfully reproduce special relativity and even general relativity and gravitation and at least give hints of quantum mechanics . So , will we find the whole of physics ? I do n't know for sure . But I think at this point it 's sort of almost embarrassing not to at least try . Not an easy project . One has got to build a lot of technology . One 's got to build a structure that 's probably at least as deep as existing physics . And I 'm not sure what the best way to organize the whole thing is . Build a team , open it up , offer prizes and so on . But I 'll tell you here today that I 'm committed to seeing this project done , to see if , within this decade , we can finally hold in our hands the rule for our universe and know where our universe lies in the space of all possible universes -- and be able to type into Wolfram Alpha "" the theory of the universe , "" and have it tell us . ( Laughter ) So I 've been working on the idea of computation now for more than 30 years , building tools and methods and turning sort of intellectual ideas into millions of lines of code and grist for server farms and so on . With every passing year , I realize how much more powerful the idea of computation really is . It 's taken us a long way already , but there 's so much more to come . From the foundations of science to the limits of technology to the very definition of the human condition , I think computation is destined to be the defining idea of our future . Thank you . ( Applause ) Chris Anderson : That was astonishing . Stay here . I 've got a question . ( Applause ) So , that was , fair to say , an astonishing talk . Are you able to say in a sentence or two how this type of thinking could integrate at some point to things like string theory or the kind of things that people think of as the fundamental explanations of the universe ? Stephen Wolfram : Well , the parts of physics that we kind of know to be true , things like the standard model of physics . What I 'm trying to do better reproduce the standard model of physics or it 's simply wrong . The things that people have tried to do in the last 25 years or so with string theory and so on have been an interesting exploration that has tried to get back to the standard model , but has n ' t quite gotten there . My guess is that some great simplifications of what I 'm doing may actually have considerable resonance with what 's been done in string theory , but that 's a complicated math thing that I do n't yet know how it 's going to work out . CA : Benoit Mandlebrot is in the audience . He has also shown how complexity can arise from a simple start . Does your work relate to his ? SW : I think so . I view Benoit Mandlebrot's work as kind of one of the founding contributions to this kind of area . Benoit has been particularly interested in nested patterns , in fractals and so on , where the structure is something that 's kind of tree-like , and where there 's sort of a big branch that makes little branches , and even smaller branches and so on . That 's kind of one of the ways that you get towards true complexity . I think things like the Rule 30 cellular automaton get us to a different level . In fact , in a very precise way they get us to a different level because they seem to be things that are capable of complexity that 's sort of as great as complexity can ever get ... I could go on about this at great length , but I wo n ' t . CA : Stephen Wolfram , thank you . ( Applause ) </content"	Information/Explanation
931	"It means murder ,  said he , stooping over the dead man . "" Ah , I expected it . Look here ! "" He pointed to what looked like a long , dark thorn stuck in the skin just above the ear . "" It looks like a thorn , "" said I. "" It is a thorn . You may pick it out . But be careful , for it is poisoned . "" I took it up between my finger and thumb . It came away from the skin so readily that hardly any mark was left behind . One tiny speck of blood showed where the puncture had been . "" This is all an insoluble mystery to me , "" said I. "" It grows darker instead of clearer . "" "" On the contrary , "" he answered , "" it clears every instant . I only require a few missing links to have an entirely connected case . "" We had almost forgotten our companion's presence since we entered the chamber . He was still standing in the door-way , the very picture of terror , wringing his hands and moaning to himself . Suddenly , however , he broke out into a sharp , querulous cry . "" The treasure is gone ! "" he said . "" They have robbed him of the treasure ! There is the hole through which we lowered it . I helped him to do it ! I was the last person who saw him ! I left him here last night , and I heard him lock the door as I came down-stairs . "" "" What time was that ? "" "" It was ten o ' clock . And now he is dead , and the police will be called in , and I shall be suspected of having had a hand in it . Oh , yes , I am sure I shall . But you do n't think so , gentlemen ? Surely you do n't think that it was I ? Is it likely that I would have brought you here if it were I ? Oh , dear ! oh , dear ! I know that I shall go mad ! "" He jerked his arms and stamped his feet in a kind of convulsive frenzy . "" You have no reason for fear , Mr. Sholto , "" said Holmes , kindly , putting his hand upon his shoulder . "" Take my advice , and drive down to the station to report this matter to the police . Offer to assist them in every way . We shall wait here until your return . "" The little man obeyed in a half-stupefied fashion , and we heard him stumbling down the stairs in the dark . Chapter VI Sherlock Holmes Gives a Demonstration "" Now , Watson , "" said Holmes , rubbing his hands , "" we have half an hour to ourselves . Let us make good use of it . My case is , as I have told you , almost complete ; but we must not err on the side of over-confidence . Simple as the case seems now , there may be something deeper underlying it . "" "" Simple ! "" I ejaculated . "" Surely , "" said he , with something of the air of a clinical professor expounding to his class . "" Just sit in the corner there , that your footprints may not complicate matters . Now to work ! In the first place , how did these folk come , and how did they go ? The door has not been opened since last night . How of the window ? "" He carried the lamp across to it , muttering his observations aloud the while , but addressing them to himself rather than to me . "" Window is snibbed on the inner side . Framework is solid . No hinges at the side . Let us open it . No water-pipe near . Roof quite out of reach . Yet a man has mounted by the window . It rained a little last night . Here is the print of a foot in mould upon the sill . And here is a circular muddy mark , and here again upon the floor , and here again by the table . See here , Watson ! This is really a very pretty demonstration . "" I looked at the round , well-defined muddy discs . "" This is not a footmark , "" said I. "" It is something much more valuable to us . It is the impression of a wooden stump . You see here on the sill is the boot-mark , a heavy boot with the broad metal heel , and beside it is the mark of the timber-toe . "" "" It is the wooden-legged man . "" "" Quite so . But there has been some one else , -- a very able and efficient ally . Could you scale that wall , doctor ? "" I looked out of the open window . The moon still shone brightly on that angle of the house . We were a good sixty feet from the round , and , look where I would , I could see no foothold , nor as much as a crevice in the brick-work . "" It is absolutely impossible , "" I answered ."	Prose/Lyrical
1567	"[ Note : her results are not typical because most people are unwilling to try something new & different . Thankfully this client was willing to get help and try something new ( she 'd never been to a Chiropractor before ) so her results were different . ] After the 1st adjustment in our initial program of vitalistic upper cervical specific care she reported these functional changes : – fewer and less intense headaches ( only in the morning every other day instead of daily ) – NO more pain or tightness in the neck – reduced pain in her hip and low back , although sacroiliac joints were still tender to the touch – NO more acid reflux or heartburn ( a common occurrence with nearly every meal during all of her pregnancies , but a symptom she had not mentioned during our initial consultation ) – paraspinal thermography balancing , showing better neurological brain-to-body connection After 2 and 1 / 2 weeks under care she reported and we observed these results : – NO more Headaches – NO more pain or tightness in the neck , hip , low back , or sacroiliac joints – a new sense of better balance and function in pelvis – right hip feels more aligned – improved digestion ( NO more acid reflux or heartburn ) – normal ROM in cervical spine – paraspinal temperature scans adaptive and balanced – TMJ region feeling better , no more pain or tightness in her jaw , and it seems to work better when eating ( TMJ disorder with jaw pain and dysfunction was another symptom not discovered in consultation ) – she said "" I feel like everything is lined up and working better . "" – she also thanked me for encouraging her to drink more water ( something she knew was good for her , but was n't doing regularly ) – and she noticed she 'd been sleeping better and more comfortably So , do you think her 20 week old baby developing inside is benefiting from Mommy's better function ? Is it possible the baby will be stronger & healthier now too ? She is absolutely thrilled with the improved function since beginning her care ( not to mention that she 's feeling a lot better too after the pain relief ) . Her friends and family members are hearing her story and noticing the changes as well . Can you think of anyone you know who needs to make a change and try something New & Different ? Call today 479.696.8000 . Set up your FREE consultation with the Doctor . In my opinion , every expecting mother owes it to her baby and future generations to get checked ( and adjusted if necessary ) to ensure her body is performing at its very best ! [ Final Note : Dr. Blackketter does not diagnose or treat symptoms , diseases , or disorders . Genesis Chiropractic is committed to improving spinal function and restoring brain-to-body neurological connection so the body can heal and function properly . We are very conservative in our adjusting . We NEVER do any traction , twisting , popping , or cracking of the neck . Our focus is precise realignment of the Atlas and Axis ( C-1 & C-2 vertebrae ) in the upper neck near the brain stem . ]"	Promotion
1246	Interactions between Earth's atmosphere and oceans drive weather and climate patterns . Although these interactions and patterns are complex , they are also predictable . This animation from The New Media Studio explains precipitation patterns by illustrating how differences in ocean surface temperatures create wind , and how wind patterns can in turn affect ocean surface temperatures . The Sun's energy is distributed unevenly across Earth's surface . Areas near our planet's equator absorb far more heat energy than areas near the poles . This uneven distribution of heat creates instability in Earth's atmosphere and oceans , and instability leads to movement of air and water . Air in the atmosphere is warmed by heat radiating from Earth's surface . The warmer the surface is , the warmer the air above it becomes . Because warm air is less dense than cold air , it tends to expand and rise , which lowers air pressure near the surface . Thus , regions of low air pressure generally form over warm water and land , while high-pressure regions form over cool surfaces . Such pressure differences create circular patterns of air called convection currents . In a convection current , warmer , low-pressure air rises and cooler , high-pressure air rushes in to fill the void . As the warm air rises , it loses heat in the upper atmosphere , cools , and sinks back toward Earth's surface , completing the circuit . The movement of air from high to low pressure in convection currents is responsible for most winds that blow across Earth's surface . The northern and southern hemispheres each have three zones in which winds blow predictably from east to west or west to east . On either side of the equator are zones dominated by the northeast and southeast trade winds , which blow strongly from east to west , and drive ocean currents in the same direction . The constant blowing of these strong winds pushes the warm surface water westward and causes a swell of warm water to build up in the western Pacific . In most years , the height of the sea surface near Indonesia is about 0.5 meters ( 1 . 6 feet ) higher than off the coast of Ecuador , and the water temperature is warmer by about 8 degrees Celsius ( 14 degrees Fahrenheit ) . On the east side of the ocean , cold water rises up from great depths to replace the water that was pushed westward . The interaction between global surface winds and ocean currents creates predictable climate patterns . For example , the heat carried westward by the warm ocean current causes powerful thunderstorms in northeastern Australia and eastern Indonesia . In contrast , the cold ocean surface on the east side of the Pacific gives rise to high pressure areas and low precipitation for much of the west coast of South America . About every three to four years , climate patterns in and around the Pacific Ocean change dramatically . The trade winds slacken and warm water that had been pushed to the west side of the Pacific is allowed to return eastward . This pattern , known as El Niño , typically causes droughts in Australia and Indonesia and damaging thunderstorms and floods in parts of South America and southern North America .	Information/Explanation
1551	"Some common signs of vision problems include headache and fatigue , holding reading material closer than normal , turning or tilting the head to use one eye only or consistently performing below potential . But vision changes can occur without you or your child noticing them and a school or pediatrician's vision screening is not a substitute for a thorough eye examination . An eye examination at Thomas Eye Group will examine the health of the eyes , including the front and back and a check to see if a prescription is needed for glasses . It also includes a check to make sure eyes focus well together ruling out a "" lazy "" or wandering eye that can hinder depth perception . If necessary , your doctor can prescribe treatment including eyeglasses , contact lenses or other depending on your child's needs . Visit www.thomaseye.com or call 678-892-2020 to schedule an appointment with the pediatric specialists at Thomas Eye Group . Make sure your kids get off to a good start this year by making vision a priority ."	Promotion
1569	"Chocolate University Online Free Chocolate Information 21 things you must know about chocolate ! Chocolate is made from the fruit of the cacao tree . Cacao pods contain nibs that are crushed to make unsweetened chocolate . When the cacao nibs are crushed , there are fats and solids remaining . The fats are called cocoa butter . The solids are ground into cocoa powder . Chocolate bars may have "" % Cacao "" or "" % Cocoa "" printed on the label . This percentage refers to the total content of the cacao ( or cocoa ) solids . White Chocolate does not contain cocoa solids but can be called chocolate by U.S. FDA standards . It must contain cocoa butter . James Baker started America's first chocolate company in Dorchester , Massachusetts in 1765 , based on the advice of John Hannon , a penniless Irish immigrant . "" Fair Trade "" chocolate means farmers and laborers are paid a fair price for the product rather than being exploited . Products become Fair Trade Certified based on the standards determined by Fairtrade Labeling Organizations International . Organic chocolate is made from ingredients , including the cacao bean , that are grown without the use of synthetic pesticides or genetic modifications . In the US , the USDA must inspect a farm before its products can be labeled organic . The world's first chocolate candy was made by Dutch chocolate-maker Conrad Van Houten in 1828 . He pressed the fat from roasted cacao beans to isolate the cocoa butter , and then added it to cocoa powder and sugar . It has been reported that Napoleon carried chocolate with him on his military campaigns , and ate it when he needed quick energy . ' Single-origin ' chocolate indicates that the cocoa beans used to produce the bar are from one region or country . In countries like Ghana and Ivory Coast , people rarely eat chocolate because it is worth more to them as a trade product than as a food . Cacao is dried in the sun for about 7 days before shipped from the country of origin to the chocolate manufacturer . The largest cacao producing countries are Côte d ' Ivoire , Ghana , and Indonesia . Chocolate Liquor is the ground up "" nib "" of the cocoa bean . Fermentation is an important step in the transformation of cacao beans to chocolate . Now that you 've had a taste of chocolate information , would you like even more trivia ? We have an informational ebook with 201 chocolate facts . Click the link for more information and to order from Amazon for your Kindle ."	Information/Explanation
268	"8.1 Thread State and the Global Interpreter Lock The Python interpreter is not fully thread safe . In order to support multi-threaded Python programs , there 's a global lock that must be held by the current thread before it can safely access Python objects . Without the lock , even the simplest operations could cause problems in a multi-threaded program : for example , when two threads simultaneously increment the reference count of the same object , the reference count could end up being incremented only once instead of twice . Therefore , the rule exists that only the thread that has acquired the global interpreter lock may operate on Python objects or call Python / C API functions . In order to support multi-threaded Python programs , the interpreter regularly releases and reacquires the lock -- by default , every ten bytecode instructions ( this can be changed with sys . s etcheckinterval ( )) . The lock is also released and reacquired around potentially blocking I / O operations like reading or writing a file , so that other threads can run while the thread that requests the I / O is waiting for the I / O operation to complete . The Python interpreter needs to keep some bookkeeping information separate per thread -- for this it uses a data structure called PyThreadState . This is new in Python 1.5 ; in earlier versions , such state was stored in global variables , and switching threads could cause problems . In particular , exception handling is now thread safe , when the application uses sys . e xc_info ( ) to access the exception last raised in the current thread . There 's one global variable left , however : the pointer to the current PyThreadState structure . While most thread packages have a way to store ' ' per-thread global data , ' ' Python's internal platform independent thread abstraction does n ' t support this yet . Therefore , the current thread state must be manipulated explicitly . This is easy enough in most cases . Most code manipulating the global interpreter lock has the following simple structure : Save the thread state in a local variable . Release the interpreter lock .... Do some blocking I / O operation ... Reacquire the interpreter lock . Restore the thread state from the local variable . This is so common that a pair of macros exists to simplify it : Py_BEGIN_ALLOW_THREADS ... Do some blocking I / O operation ... Py_END_ALLOW_THREADS The Py_BEGIN_ALLOW_THREADS macro opens a new block and declares a hidden local variable ; the Py_END_ALLOW_THREADS macro closes the block . Another advantage of using these two macros is that when Python is compiled without thread support , they are defined empty , thus saving the thread state and lock manipulations . When thread support is enabled , the block above expands to the following code : PyThreadState * _save ; _save = PyEval_SaveThread ( ) ; ... Do some blocking I / O operation ... PyEval_RestoreThread ( _save ) ; Using even lower level primitives , we can get roughly the same effect as follows : PyThreadState * _save ; _save = PyThreadState_Swap ( NULL ) ; PyEval_ReleaseLock ( ) ; ... Do some blocking I / O operation ... PyEval_AcquireLock ( ) ; PyThreadState_Swap ( _save ) ; There are some subtle differences ; in particular , PyEval_RestoreThread ( ) saves and restores the value of the global variable errno , since the lock manipulation does not guarantee that errno is left alone . Also , when thread support is disabled , PyEval_SaveThread ( ) and PyEval_RestoreThread ( ) do n't manipulate the lock ; in this case , PyEval_ReleaseLock ( ) and PyEval_AcquireLock ( ) are not available . This is done so that dynamically loaded extensions compiled with thread support enabled can be loaded by an interpreter that was compiled with disabled thread support . The global interpreter lock is used to protect the pointer to the current thread state . When releasing the lock and saving the thread state , the current thread state pointer must be retrieved before the lock is released ( since another thread could immediately acquire the lock and store its own thread state in the global variable ) . Reversely , when acquiring the lock and restoring the thread state , the lock must be acquired before storing the thread state pointer . Why am I going on with so much detail about this ? Because when threads are created from C , they do n't have the global interpreter lock , nor is there a thread state data structure for them . Such threads must bootstrap themselves into existence , by first creating a thread state data structure , then acquiring the lock , and finally storing their thread state pointer , before they can start using the Python / C API . When they are done , they should reset the thread state pointer , release the lock , and finally free their thread state data structure . When creating a thread data structure , you need to provide an interpreter state data structure . The interpreter state data structure hold global data that is shared by all threads in an interpreter , for example the module administration ( sys . m odules ) . Depending on your needs , you can either create a new interpreter state data structure , or share the interpreter state data structure used by the Python main thread ( to access the latter , you must obtain the thread state and access its interp member ; this must be done by a thread that is created by Python or by the main thread after Python is initialized ) . PyInterpreterState This data structure represents the state shared by a number of cooperating threads . Threads belonging to the same interpreter share their module administration and a few other internal items . There are no public members in this structure . Threads belonging to different interpreters initially share nothing , except process state like available memory , open file descriptors and such . The global interpreter lock is also shared by all threads , regardless of to which interpreter they belong . PyThreadState This data structure represents the state of a single thread . The only public data member is PyInterpreterState * interp , which points to this thread's interpreter state . void PyEval_InitThreads ( ) Initialize and acquire the global interpreter lock . It should be called in the main thread before creating a second thread or engaging in any other thread operations such as PyEval_ReleaseLock ( ) or PyEval_ReleaseThread ( tstate ) . It is not needed before calling PyEval_SaveThread ( ) or PyEval_RestoreThread ( ) . This is a no-op when called for a second time . It is safe to call this function before calling Py_Initialize ( ) . When only the main thread exists , no lock operations are needed . This is a common situation ( most Python programs do not use threads ) , and the lock operations slow the interpreter down a bit . Therefore , the lock is not created initially . This situation is equivalent to having acquired the lock : when there is only a single thread , all object accesses are safe . Therefore , when this function initializes the lock , it also acquires it . Before the Python thread module creates a new thread , knowing that either it has the lock or the lock has n ' t been created yet , it calls PyEval_InitThreads ( ) . When this call returns , it is guaranteed that the lock has been created and that it has acquired it . It is not safe to call this function when it is unknown which thread ( if any ) currently has the global interpreter lock . This function is not available when thread support is disabled at compile time . void PyEval_AcquireLock ( ) Acquire the global interpreter lock . The lock must have been created earlier . If this thread already has the lock , a deadlock ensues . This function is not available when thread support is disabled at compile time . void PyEval_ReleaseLock ( ) Release the global interpreter lock . The lock must have been created earlier . This function is not available when thread support is disabled at compile time . void PyEval_AcquireThread ( PyThreadState * tstate ) Acquire the global interpreter lock and then set the current thread state to tstate , which should not be NULL . The lock must have been created earlier . If this thread already has the lock , deadlock ensues . This function is not available when thread support is disabled at compile time . void PyEval_ReleaseThread ( PyThreadState * tstate ) Reset the current thread state to NULL and release the global interpreter lock . The lock must have been created earlier and must be held by the current thread . The tstate argument , which must not be NULL , is only used to check that it represents the current thread state -- if it is n't , a fatal error is reported . This function is not available when thread support is disabled at compile time . PyThreadState * PyEval_SaveThread ( ) Release the interpreter lock ( if it has been created and thread support is enabled ) and reset the thread state to NULL , returning the previous thread state ( which is not NULL ) . If the lock has been created , the current thread must have acquired it . ( This function is available even when thread support is disabled at compile time . ) void PyEval_RestoreThread ( PyThreadState * tstate ) Acquire the interpreter lock ( if it has been created and thread support is enabled ) and set the thread state to tstate , which must not be NULL . If the lock has been created , the current thread must not have acquired it , otherwise deadlock ensues . ( This function is available even when thread support is disabled at compile time . ) The following macros are normally used without a trailing semicolon ; look for example usage in the Python source distribution . Py_BEGIN_ALLOW_THREADS This macro expands to "" { PyThreadState * _save ; _save = PyEval_SaveThread ( ) ; "" . Note that it contains an opening brace ; it must be matched with a following Py_END_ALLOW_THREADS macro . See above for further discussion of this macro . It is a no-op when thread support is disabled at compile time . Py_END_ALLOW_THREADS This macro expands to "" PyEval_RestoreThread ( _save ) ; } "" . Note that it contains a closing brace ; it must be matched with an earlier Py_BEGIN_ALLOW_THREADS macro . See above for further discussion of this macro . It is a no-op when thread support is disabled at compile time . Py_BEGIN_BLOCK_THREADS This macro expands to "" PyEval_RestoreThread ( _save ) ; "" i . e . it is equivalent to Py_END_ALLOW_THREADS without the closing brace . It is a no-op when thread support is disabled at compile time . Py_BEGIN_UNBLOCK_THREADS This macro expands to "" _save = PyEval_SaveThread ( ) ; "" i . e . it is equivalent to Py_BEGIN_ALLOW_THREADS without the opening brace and variable declaration . It is a no-op when thread support is disabled at compile time . All of the following functions are only available when thread support is enabled at compile time , and must be called only when the interpreter lock has been created . PyInterpreterState * PyInterpreterState_New ( ) Create a new interpreter state object . The interpreter lock need not be held , but may be held if it is necessary to serialize calls to this function . void PyInterpreterState_Clear ( PyInterpreterState * interp ) Reset all information in an interpreter state object . The interpreter lock must be held . void PyInterpreterState_Delete ( PyInterpreterState * interp ) Destroy an interpreter state object . The interpreter lock need not be held . The interpreter state must have been reset with a previous call to PyInterpreterState_Clear ( ) . PyThreadState * PyThreadState_New ( PyInterpreterState * interp ) Create a new thread state object belonging to the given interpreter object . The interpreter lock need not be held , but may be held if it is necessary to serialize calls to this function . void PyThreadState_Clear ( PyThreadState * tstate ) Reset all information in a thread state object . The interpreter lock must be held . void PyThreadState_Delete ( PyThreadState * tstate ) Destroy a thread state object . The interpreter lock need not be held . The thread state must have been reset with a previous call to PyThreadState_Clear ( ) . PyThreadState * PyThreadState_Get ( ) Return the current thread state . The interpreter lock must be held . When the current thread state is NULL , this issues a fatal error ( so that the caller need n ' t check for NULL ) . PyThreadState * PyThreadState_Swap ( PyThreadState * tstate ) Swap the current thread state with the thread state given by the argument tstate , which may be NULL . The interpreter lock must be held ."	Instruction
180	"THE USE , STOCKPILING , PRODUCTION AND 19 September 2000 AND ON THEIR DESTRUCTION Original : ENGLISH Second Meeting Geneva , 11-15 September 2000 ON THE PROHIBITION OF THE USE , STOCKPILING , PRODUCTION The Final Report of the Second Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use , Stockpiling , Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction consists of two parts and five annexes as follows : Part I Organization and Work of the Second Meeting Part II Declaration of the Second Meeting of the States Parties Introduction The Convention on the Prohibition of the Use , Stockpiling , Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction provides in Article 11 , paragraphs 1 and 2 , that : AThe States Parties shall meet regularly in order to consider any matter with regard to the application or implementation of this Convention , including : ( a ) The operation and status of this Convention ; ( b ) Matters arising from the reports submitted under the provisions of this Convention ; ( c ) International cooperation and assistance in accordance with Article 6 ; ( d ) The development of technologies to clear anti-personnel mines ; ( e ) Submissions of States Parties under Article 8 ; and ( f ) Decisions relating to submissions of States Parties as provided for in Article 5 @ ; and , Meetings subsequent to the First Meeting of the States Parties Ashall be convened by the Secretary-General of the United Nations annually until the first Review Conference @ . At its fifty-fourth session , the General Assembly of the United Nations in resolution 54 / 54 B requested the Secretary-General , Ain accordance with Article 11 , paragraph 2 , of the Convention , to undertake the preparations necessary to convene the Second Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention at Geneva , from 11 to 15 September 2000 , and , on behalf of States Parties and according to Article 11 , paragraph 4 , of the Convention , to invite States not parties to the Convention , as well as the United Nations , other relevant international organizations or institutions , regional organizations , the International Committee of the Red Cross and relevant non-governmental organizations to attend the Meeting as observers @ . To prepare for the Second Meeting , the Standing Committee of Experts ( SCE ) on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , established by the First Meeting of the States Parties , held two meetings , to which all interested States Parties , States not parties to the Convention , as well as the United Nations , other relevant international organizations or institutions , regional organizations , the International Committee of the Red Cross and relevant non-governmental organizations were encouraged to attend . The first meeting of the SCE was held 10-11 January 2000 . During the meeting , participants considered a number of issues relating to the organization of the Second Meeting , including a draft provisional agenda , a draft programme of work , draft rules of procedure and provisional estimated costs for convening the Second Meeting . No objections were raised in connection with the proposals made with respect to the draft rules of procedure , provisional estimated costs and the venue for the Second Meeting , and it was agreed that they , along with all other conference documents with the exception of reports submitted under Article 7 of the Convention , would be finalized in all six languages of the Convention to be put before the Second Meeting . It was also agreed that the record of work of the five Standing Committees of Experts would be communicated to the Second Meeting in the form of a five-page report prepared by each Committee . The second meeting of the SCE was held 29-30 May 2000 . During the meeting , no objections were made with respect to the draft provisional agenda and draft programme of work , and it was agreed that they would be put before the Second Meeting . In addition , no objections were made with respect to five-page SCE reports serving as the basis for discussion during the informal consultations to be held at the Second Meeting under agenda item 15 ( with the exception of the report of the SCE on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , which would serve as the basis for discussion under agenda item 11 ) . Between the First and Second Meetings of the States Parties , the Standing Committees of Experts received considerable support from the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining ( GICHD ) . States Parties expressed their appreciation for this assistance and the GICHD = s contribution to the successful operation of the intersessional work programme . In addition , States Parties recognized that the work of the Standing Committees of Experts benefited greatly from the active participation of relevant non-governmental , regional and international organizations . States Parties expressed their gratitude to these organizations for their substantive involvement in the intersessional work programme . The opening of the Second Meeting was preceded by a ceremony at which statements were delivered by the following : Vladimir Petrovsky , Director-General of the United Nations Office at Geneva ; Adolf Ogi , President of Switzerland ; Martine Brunschwig Graf , State Councillor of the Republic and Canton of Geneva ; Alain Vaissade , Mayor of the City of Geneva ; Her Royal Highness , Princess Astrid of Belgium ; Elisabeth Reusse-Decrey , President of the Swiss Campaign against Landmines ; Sir Paul McCartney and Heather Mills . In addition , a presentation was made by 18 landmine survivors from 14 countries . Organization of the Second Meeting The Second Meeting was opened on 11 September 2000 by the President of the First Meeting of the States Parties , the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Republic of Mozambique , Dr. Leonardo Santos Simão . The Second Meeting elected by acclamation Ambassador Steffen Kongstad of Norway as its President in accordance with rule 7 of the draft rules of procedure . At the opening session , a message addressed to the Second Meeting by the Secretary-General of the United Nations was read by the Director-General of the United Nations Office at Geneva , and statements were made by Jakob Kellenberger , President of the International Committee of the Red Cross , and Jody Williams , Ambassador for the International Campaign to Ban Landmines . At its first plenary meeting on 11 September 2000 , the Second Meeting adopted its agenda as contained in document APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 1 . On the same occasion , the Second Meeting adopted its rules of procedure as contained in document APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 3 , the estimated costs for convening the Second Meeting as contained in document APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 4 , and its programme of work as contained in document APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 2 . Also at its first plenary meeting , representatives from Cambodia , Canada , France , Hungary , Mali , Mexico , Mozambique , South Africa , Switzerland and the United Kingdom were elected by acclamation as Vice-Presidents of the Second Meeting . The Meeting unanimously confirmed the nomination of Ambassador Christian Faessler of Switzerland as the Secretary-General of the Meeting . C. Participation and credentials in the Second Meeting Sixty-two States Parties participated in the Meeting : Albania , Argentina , Australia , Austria , Belgium , Benin , Bolivia , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Brazil , Bulgaria , Burkina Faso , Cambodia , Canada , Costa Rica , Croatia , Czech Republic , Denmark , Ecuador , El Salvador , France , Germany , Guatemala , Guinea , Holy See , Honduras , Hungary , Ireland , Italy , Jamaica , Japan , Jordan , Liberia , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg , Madagascar , Malaysia , Mali , Mexico , Monaco , Mozambique , the Netherlands , New Zealand , Nicaragua , Norway , Panama , Peru , Philippines , Portugal , Qatar , Senegal , Slovakia , Slovenia , South Africa , Spain , Sweden , Switzerland , Thailand , Tunisia , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , Venezuela , Yemen and Zimbabwe . Seven States that ratified the Convention , but for which the Convention had not yet entered into force , participated in the Meeting as observers , in accordance with Article 11 , paragraph 4 , of the Convention and rule 1 , paragraph 1 , second sentence , of the rules of procedure of the Meeting : Bangladesh , Colombia , Côte d = Ivoire , Dominican Republic , Gabon , Ghana and Mauritania . A further forty-one States not parties to the Convention participated in the Meeting as observers , in accordance with Article 11 , paragraph 4 , of the Convention and rule 1 , paragraph 1 , second sentence , of the rules of procedure of the Meeting : Afghanistan , Algeria , Angola , Azerbaijan , Belarus , Brunei Darussalam , Burundi , Bhutan , Cameroon , Cape Verde , Chile , China , Cuba , Cyprus , Estonia , Finland , Georgia , Greece , Indonesia , Iraq , Israel , Kenya , Libyan Arab Jamahiriya , Lithuania , Malta , Morocco , Nepal , Oman , Poland , Romania , Saudi Arabia , Singapore , Somalia , Sri Lanka , Sudan , Turkey , Ukraine , United Arab Emirates , Uruguay , Viet Nam and Zambia . Credentials issued by the Head of State or Government or by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or by a person authorized by one of the above , as required by rule 4 of the rules of procedure of the Meeting , or credentials in the form of photocopies or facsimiles of such a document , or credentials in the form of information concerning the appointment of representatives to the Meeting received in the form of letters or notes verbales or facsimiles thereof from embassies , permanent missions to the United Nations or other intergovernmental organizations or other government offices or authorities , were received from all 110 States mentioned in paragraphs 13 to 15 above . The Meeting accepted the credentials of the representatives of all of the States mentioned in paragraphs 13 to 15 above . In accordance with Article 11 , paragraph 4 , of the Convention and rule 1 , paragraphs 2 and 3 of the rules of procedure , the following international organizations and institutions , regional organizations , entities and non-governmental organizations attended the Meeting as observers : European Union ; International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) ; International Campaign to Ban Landmines ( ICBL ) ; International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) ; Organization of American States ( OAS ) ; Sovereign Military Order of Malta ; United Nations Organization : United Nations Secretariat ( Department of Peace-Keeping Operations / United Nations Mine Action Service ( UNMAS ) and Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ) , United Nations Children = s Fund ( UNICEF ) , United Nations Development Programme ( UNDP ) , United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) , United Nations Office for Project Services ( UNOPS ) , United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research ( UNIDIR ) , World Health Organization ( WHO ) ; World Bank . In accordance with rule 1.4 , the following organizations attended the Meeting as observers on the invitation of the Meeting : Geneva Foundation , Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining ( GICHD ) , Green Earth Organization , International Development Research Centre ( IDRC ) , League of Arab States , Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie , Organization of the Islamic Conference , PRIO ( International Peace Research Institute , Oslo ) and SOLIDEST . A list of all delegations to the Second Meeting is contained in document APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / INF . 3 . Work of the Second Meeting The Second Meeting held eight plenary meetings from 11 to 15 September 2000 . The first three and a half plenary meetings were devoted to the general exchange of views under agenda item 10 . Delegations of 34 States Parties , 15 observer States and 7 observer organizations made statements in the general exchange of views , including rights of reply . At the fourth plenary meeting , on 13 September 2000 , the Meeting reviewed the general status and operation of the Convention , expressing satisfaction that 107 States have formally accepted the obligations of the Convention , that 22 States Parties have completed destruction of stockpiled anti-personnel mines and a further 23 States Parties are in the process of stockpile destruction , that the new international norm established by the Convention is taking hold as demonstrated by the behaviour of many States not parties to the Convention , and that approximately US $ 250 million has been allocated by donors over the past year to address the global landmine problem . The Meeting also expressed satisfaction that efforts to implement the Convention are making a difference , with considerable areas of mined land having been cleared over the past year , with casualty rates having been reduced in several of the world = s most mine-affected States , and with more and better efforts being undertaken to assist landmine victims . As part of the above-mentioned review , the Meeting reviewed the work of the Standing Committee of Experts on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , as recorded in its report contained in annex IV , and focused its attention on actions recommended by the Committee . At the fifth plenary meeting , on 13 September 2000 , the Meeting considered the submission of requests under Article 5 of the Convention . The President notified the Meeting that he had not been informed that any State wished to make such a request at the Second Meeting . The Meeting took note of this . At the same plenary , the Meeting considered the submission of requests under Article 8 of the Convention . The President notified the Meeting that he had not been informed that any State wished to make such a request at the Second Meeting . The Meeting took note of this . In addition , within the framework of the fifth to the seventh plenary meetings , the Meeting held informal consultations on international cooperation and assistance in accordance with Article 6 on the following topics : mine clearance ; victim assistance , socio-economic reintegration and mine awareness ; the destruction of stockpiled anti-personnel mines ; and the development of technologies for mine action . These consultations involved a review of the work of the relevant Standing Committees of Experts , as recorded in their reports contained in annex IV , with a focus on the actions recommended by the Committees . E. Decisions and recommendations At its fifth plenary meeting , on 13 September 2000 , the Meeting considered matters arising from and in the context of reports to be submitted under Article 7 , including consideration of an amendment to the reporting format . The amendment to the format was adopted and is contained in annex III to this report . In addition , the Meeting reviewed the technical ways and means of circulating reports as adopted at the First Meeting , without making any changes to these , with the exception of encouraging States Parties to submit reports electronically and , when submitting an annual update , to highlight changes in relation to earlier reports . Further to the recommendations made by the Standing Committee of Experts on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , the Meeting recognized the continuing importance of the intersessional work programme and , at its fifth plenary meeting , on 13 September 2000 , agreed that the second intersessional work programme would be adjusted according to the President = s paper , which is contained in annex II . Further consultations identified the following States Parties as the Committee Co-Chairs and Rapporteurs until the end of the Third Meeting of the States Parties : - Mine Clearance and Related Technologies : Netherlands and Peru ( Co-Chairs ) ; Germany and Yemen ( Rapporteurs ) ; - Victim Assistance , Socio-Economic Reintegration and Mine Awareness : Japan and Nicaragua ( Co-Chairs ) ; Canada and Honduras ( Rapporteurs ) ; - Stockpile Destruction : Malaysia and Slovakia ( Co-Chairs ) ; Australia and Croatia ( Rapporteurs ) ; - General Status and Operation of the Convention : Belgium and Zimbabwe ( Co-Chairs ) ; Norway and Thailand ( Rapporteurs ) . States Parties recognized that the work of the Standing Committees would require a high degree of coordination between the Co-Chairs to ensure that their work would facilitate the successful implementation of the Convention . In this context the States Parties established a Coordinating Committee of Co-Chairs , which will meet on an ad hoc basis under the chairmanship of the current President of the Meeting of the States Parties . This Committee will serve to coordinate matters relating to and flowing from the work of the Standing Committees with the work of the Meetings of the States Parties . As appropriate , the Committee can call upon any relevant party to assist in its work , including past Presidents , past Co-Chairs , and representatives of other States Parties and organizations . The Meeting also noted the work undertaken by interested States Parties to establish a sponsorship programme to ensure more widespread representation at meetings of the Convention . States Parties endorsed , and expressed satisfaction with , the work of the Standing Committees of Experts , warmly welcoming the reports of the Standing Committees of Experts , as contained in annex IV . The Meeting was in general agreement with the recommendations made by the Standing Committees of Experts and urged States Parties and all other relevant parties , where appropriate , to act with urgency on these recommendations . At its eighth plenary meeting , on 15 September 2000 , the Meeting agreed that the Third Meeting of the States Parties would be held on 18 to 21 September 2001 in Managua , Nicaragua . At the same plenary , the Meeting adopted the Declaration of the Second Meeting of the States Parties , which is contained in Part II of this report . In addition , the Meeting warmly welcomed the President = s Action Programme , contained in annex V , as a practical means of facilitating implementation of the Convention in accordance with the recommendations made by the Standing Committees of Experts . Documentation A list of documents of the Second Meeting is contained in annex I to this report . Adoption of the Final Report and conclusion of the Second Meeting At its eighth and final plenary meeting , on 15 September 2000 , the Meeting adopted its draft Final Report , contained in document APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 8 . We , the States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use , Stockpiling , Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction , along with other States , international organizations and institutions and non-governmental organizations , are gathered in Geneva , Switzerland to reaffirm our unwavering commitment both to the total eradication of anti-personnel mines and to addressing the insidious and inhumane effects of these weapons . We celebrate the ongoing growth in support for the Convention and our satisfaction with the general status and operation of it : over 100 States have formally accepted the obligations of the Convention ; over 20 States Parties have completed destruction of stockpiled anti-personnel mines and a further 23 States Parties are in the process of destroying stockpiles ; the new international norm established by the Convention is taking hold as demonstrated by the behaviour of many States not parties to the Convention ; and approximately US $ 250 million has been allocated by donors over the past year to address the global landmine problem . We recognize that much work remains . However , we are pleased that our efforts are making a difference : considerable areas of mined land have been cleared over the past year ; casualty rates have been reduced in several of the world = s most mine-affected States ; and more and better efforts are being undertaken to assist landmine victims . While we celebrate the success of the Convention , we remain deeply concerned that anti-personnel mines continue to kill , maim and threaten the lives of countless innocent people each day ; that the terror of mines prevents individuals from reclaiming their lives ; and that the lasting impact of these weapons denies communities the opportunity to rebuild long after conflicts have ended . We deplore the continued use of anti-personnel mines . Such acts are contrary to the aims of the Convention and exacerbate the humanitarian problems already caused by the use of these weapons . We call upon all those who continue to use anti-personnel mines , as well as those who develop , produce , otherwise acquire , stockpile , retain and transfer these weapons , to cease now and to join us in the task of eradicating these weapons . We implore those States that have declared their commitment to the object and purpose of the Convention and that continue to use anti-personnel mines to recognize that this is a clear violation of their solemn commitment . We call upon all States concerned to respect their commitments . We celebrate this Second Meeting of the States Parties . But we recognize that achieving the promise of this unique and important humanitarian instrument rests in continuing to be tireless in our efforts to end the use of anti-personnel mines , to eradicate stockpiles , to cease development , production and transfers of these weapons , to clear mined areas in order to free land from its deadly bondage , to assist victims to reclaim their lives and to prevent new victims . We also recognize that these are common tasks for humanity and therefore call upon all governments and people everywhere to join us in this effort . We call upon those in a position to do so to provide technical and financial assistance to meet the enormous challenges of mine action , and , whenever relevant , to integrate these efforts into development planning and programming . We call upon those States that have not formally accepted the obligations of the Convention to ratify or accede to it promptly . We call upon all States that are in the process of formally accepting the obligations of the Convention to apply provisionally the terms of the Convention . And we call upon one another as States Parties to effectively implement the Convention and to comply fully with its provisions . We reiterate that , as a community dedicated to seeing an end to the use of anti-personnel mines , our assistance and cooperation will flow primarily to those who have foresworn the use of these weapons forever through adherence to and implementation of the Convention . While we realize that our task is huge , we warmly welcome the substantial progress that has been made during the intersessional work programme and the accomplishments of this programme = s Standing Committees of Experts . We recall that the intersessional work programme was established at the First Meeting of the States Parties to focus and advance the international community = s mine action efforts and to measure progress made in achieving its objectives . We express our satisfaction that the intersessional work programme has lived up to this promise , has assisted in developing a global picture of priorities consistent with the obligations and time-frames contained within the Convention , and has been undertaken in a manner consistent with the Convention = s tradition of inclusivity , partnership , dialogue , openness and practical cooperation . We acknowledge that the progress made during the intersessional work programme was significantly enhanced by the substantive participation of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines and other relevant non-governmental organizations , and by regional and international organizations , including the International Committee of the Red Cross . We express our gratitude to these organizations for their important contributions and we thank the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining for its support of the first intersessional work programme and its commitment to continuing to support future intersessional work . Building upon the accomplishments of the intersessional work programme , including increased participation in the work of the Convention by mine-affected States , we call upon all interested parties to continue to participate in the work of the Standing Committees between now and the next Meeting of the States Parties , which will take place on 18 to 21 September 2001 in Managua , Nicaragua . In reflecting upon our progress and accomplishments , and in considering the work that lies ahead , we reconfirm our conviction to make anti-personnel mines objects of the past , our obligation to assist those who have fallen victim to this terror , and our shared responsibility to the memories of those whose lives have been lost as a result of the use of these weapons , including those killed as a result of their dedication to helping others by clearing mined areas or providing humanitarian assistance . Symbol Title APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 1 Draft provisional agenda APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 2 Draft programme of work APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 3 Draft rules of procedure APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 4 Estimated costs for convening the Second Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use , Stockpiling , Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 5 President = s paper on revisions to the intersessional work programme APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 6 President = s paper on amending the Article 7 reporting format APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 7 President = s Action Programme APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / L. 8 Draft final report of the Second Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use , Stockpiling , Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / SCE1 / 1 Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on Mine Clearance APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / SCE2 / 1 Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on Victim Assistance , Socio-Economic Reintegration and Mine Awareness ( SCE-VA ) APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / SCE3 / 1 Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on Stockpile Destruction APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / SCE4 / 1 Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on Technologies for Mine Action APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / SCE5 / 1 Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on the General Status and Operation of the Convention APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / 1 Final report of the Second Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use , Stockpiling , Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / INF . 1 Summary of Article 7 Reports APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / INF . 2 New Zealand - Ottawa Convention Second Meeting of Parties - Anti-personnel mines retained for training APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / INF . 3 List of participants APLC / MSP . 2 / 2000 / MISC . 1 Provisional list of participants PRESIDENT = S PAPER ON REVISIONS TO THE Background At the First Meeting of the States Parties ( FMSP ) , it was decided that the President = s Paper on Intersessional Work ( annex IV of the Final Report ( APLC / MSP . 1 / 1999 / 1 ) of 20 May 1999 ) would guide the intersessional work . In terms of this decision , informal open-ended Standing Committees of Experts ( SCEs ) were established to focus on the following themes : - Mine clearance ; - Victim assistance , socio-economic reintegration and mine awareness ; - Stockpile destruction ; - Technologies for mine action ; - General status and operation of the Convention . It was further decided that the SCEs could meet on , at least , an annual basis . The SCEs = work programmes for 1999 and 2000 were organized in five periods of meetings in September and December 1999 , January , March and May 2000 . This work programme , together with the annual Meeting of the States Parties , meant that six periods of meetings were held to promote and facilitate the implementation of mine action in the context of the obligations of the Convention . Although the work programme of the SCEs succeeded in facilitating and supporting the effective functioning of the Convention , the extensive work programme , to a certain degree , constrained participation in , and the efficient organization of , the work of the SCEs . At the 10-11 January 2000 meeting of the SCE on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , the experience with the first meetings of the SCEs was discussed . The need for streamlining the work of the SCEs was identified as well as the importance of broadening the participation in the work of the Committees . At this meeting , it was recommended that the Co-Chairs of this SCE carry out consultations with the objective of formulating concrete suggestions on how the intersessional work programme could be adjusted . In this regard and in addition to various consultations , an informal open-ended consultation session was held at the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining ( GICHD ) in Geneva on 10 April 2000 , to which States Parties , other States , the International Campaign to Ban Landmines ( ICBL ) and the International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) were invited . As a result of these consultations , the Co-Chairs of the SCE understood that there was a strong consensus in favour of streamlining the post-Second Meeting of the States Parties ( SMSP ) intersessional work programme . To this end , a series of recommendations were drafted and accepted at the 29-30 May 2000 meeting of the SCE . These recommendations are as follows : Duration of meetings As opposed to the current six periods of meetings , totalling six weeks in duration , it was recommended that only three periods of meetings be held annually , including the Meeting of the States Parties . That is , each SCE shall meet twice between Meetings of the States Parties , once during an initial week-long session of meetings in November or December 2000 and once during a week-long session of meetings in May 2001 . Number of SCEs In the interest of promoting efficiency , directly related themes should be merged into one SCE . It was , therefore , recommended that the SCEs for mine clearance and technologies for mine action be combined into one SCE . Therefore , there would be four SCEs as follows : - Mine clearance and related technologies ( meeting for 1.5 days during each of the two week-long sessions of meetings ) ; - Victim assistance , socio-economic reintegration and mine awareness ( meeting for 1.5 days during each of the two week-long sessions of meetings ) ; - Stockpile destruction ( meeting for 1 day during each of the two week-long sessions of meetings ) ; - General status and operation of the Convention ( meeting for 1 day during each of the two week-long sessions of meetings ) . Language of proceedings To further enhance active participation in the work of the SCEs , it was recommended that those States in a position to do so consider making voluntary contributions to have additional languages made available for the intersessional meetings . Dates of meetings It was recommended that the first of the two week-long sessions of meetings take place 4-8 December 2000 . It was further recommended that the second of the two week-long sessions of meetings take place 7-11 May 2001 . For example : Role of Co-Chairs It was recommended that Co-Chairs seek , as appropriate , the ongoing support and advice of past Co-Chairs . Name Change It was recommended that what has been to date known as Standing Committees of Experts now be referred to as Standing Committees . Co-Chairs and Rapporteurs As a result of consultations , it was recommended that the following States Parties serve as Co-Chairs and Rapporteurs between the SMSP and the end of the Third Meeting of the States Parties : PRESIDENT = S PAPER ON AMENDING THE Background At the January meeting of the Standing Committee of Experts on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , the Article 7 reporting process was discussed . While lessons were learned about difficulties encountered by States Parties in implementing this provision of the Convention , it was the sense of the Co-Chairs that there was general satisfaction with the reporting format accepted at the First Meeting of the States Parties in Maputo . As well , ideas were put forward with respect to possibilities for States Parties to update reports via the Internet . The United Nations should be recognized for the work it has undertaken to develop these ideas . However , concerns were expressed that several States Parties have not submitted reports on time and that of those that have , few have done so electronically . Therefore , it was the sense of the Co-Chairs that while working toward more efficient Internet-based reporting would be a worthwhile medium-term goal , current efforts with respect to Article 7 reporting should focus on increasing the rate of compliance and ensuring that States in a position to do so submit reports electronically . In addition , as part of the work programme of the Standing Committee of Experts on Victim Assistance , Socio-Economic Reintegration and Mine Awareness , the Victim Assistance Reporting Network Group ( VARNG ) developed a draft reporting form and recommended its acceptance at the 29-31 March 2000 meeting of the SCE on Victim Assistance . The recommendation was not accepted , as States Parties expressed concerns , which included concern that the process may duplicate existing reporting efforts , Areporting fatigue @ , the fact that victim assistance is just one of several Article 6 obligations for which reporting is not an obligation for States Parties , and the difficulties that would be faced by mine-affected States in responding to the proposed form . The Co-Chairs of the SCE on the General Status and Operation of the Convention recognized the important role that the SCE on Victim Assistance played in highlighting the need for instruments to indicate the extent to which States Ain a position to do so @ have met their obligations under Article 6 of the Convention , particularly the obligation to Aprovide assistance for the care and rehabilitation , and social and economic reintegration , of mine victims @ . As a possible means of meeting the need highlighted by the SCE on Victim Assistance in a manner that is sensitive to the concerns expressed by States Parties at the March meeting of that Standing Committee , the Co-Chairs of the SCE on the General Status and Operation of the Convention proposed amending the Article 7 reporting format to include an additional form for voluntary reporting on these matters . The proposal put forward by the Co-Chairs was designed to provide an opportunity for States Parties to submit voluntary reports on matters considered important in complying with obligations under Article 6 , paragraph 3 . However , this proposal was also designed to provide States Parties with maximum flexibility in making voluntary reports and to capture , at the discretion of each individual State Party , additional matters pertaining to the implementation of the Convention not covered by formal Article 7 reporting requirements . At the 29-30 May 2000 meeting of the SCE on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , this proposal , in the form of the following recommendations , was accepted : - In order to provide States Parties with the opportunity to report voluntarily on matters pertaining to compliance and implementation not covered by the formal reporting requirements contained in Article 7 , it was recommended that the Article 7 reporting format be amended to include an additional form . ( See attached AForm J : Other relevant matters @ . - It was further recommended that States Parties consider using this form to report on activities undertaken with respect to Article 6 , in particular to report on assistance provided for the care and rehabilitation , and social and economic reintegration , of mine victims . Form J : Other relevant matters Remark : States Parties may use this form to report voluntarily on other relevant matters , including matters pertaining to compliance and implementation not covered by the formal reporting requirements contained in Article 7 . States Parties are encouraged to use this form to report on activities undertaken with respect to Article 6 , and in particular to report on assistance provided for the care and rehabilitation , and social and economic reintegration , of mine victims . State [ Party ] : _______________________________ reporting for time period from _______to________ [ Narrative / reference to other reports ] Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on Mine Clearance to the Second Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention Introduction The Standing Committee of Experts ( SCE ) on Mine Clearance , established in accordance with the decisions and recommendations of the 3-7 May 1999 First Meeting of the States Parties ( FMSP ) , met in Geneva from 13-15 September 1999 and from 27-29 March 2000 . At the FMSP , it was agreed in accordance with paragraph 25 of the final report of the FMSP and its annex IV that Mozambique and the United Kingdom would serve as Co-Chairs of the SCE , with the Netherlands and Peru serving as Co-Rapporteurs . Representatives of 69 States , 8 United Nations bodies , the European Commission , the Organization of American States ( OAS ) , the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) , the International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) , the International Campaign to Ban Landmines ( ICBL ) and of numerous other relevant organizations were registered as participants in either or both of the two meetings . The meetings of the SCE received administrative support from the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining ( GICHD ) . Matters reviewed by the SCE The SCE considered progress in reviewing and revising international standards for humanitarian mine clearance . The importance of involving all stakeholders and the need for the effective dissemination and implementation of the standards were discussed . The SCE also considered the conditions necessary for establishing a conducive operating environment for mine clearance , and the desirability of agreeing to guidelines for this . The SCE received progress reports on the Study on the Use of Socio-Economic Analysis in Planning and Evaluating Mine Action , which is being undertaken by the GICHD on behalf of the United Nations Development Programme ( UNDP ) , on the Level 1 Survey activities of the Survey Action Center ( SAC ) , and on the impact of mine clearance on peacebuilding and reconstruction . The SCE explored how better planning and the setting of priorities could be assisted by the availability of better quality information , both written portfolios of potential mine action projects and electronic information available on web sites . The United Nations Mine Action Service ( UNMAS ) database , Mine Action Investments , was presented . Ways of improving coordination among stakeholders were examined . Options for improving internal coordination within mine-affected countries were discussed , and ways of better disseminating information internationally were proposed . Recognizing the importance in most cases of developing a sustainable national capacity and the valuable role that the national military could play in certain circumstances , the SCE considered issues related to the use of the military and the improvement of training for enhanced management within national mine action centres . Actions taken or in process on the development of specific tools and instruments in order to assist the implementation of the Convention With the active endorsement of the SCE , and on behalf of UNMAS , the GICHD is revising international standards for mine clearance , which will be known as the International Standards for Humanitarian Mine Action and contain a glossary of terms and terminology . It was noted that members of the ICBL are reviewing and expanding existing guidelines and principles for good practice in mine clearance . In response to a matter proposed by the first meeting of the SCE , Canada completed the task of developing the UNMAS database , Mine Action Investments , in such a way that donors are able to communicate information on their funding and policies underlying the provision of support for mine action . The database is functioning , though further data would be welcomed . The SCE commended the Portfolio of Mine Action Projects issued by UNMAS and the Compendium Document produced by Handicap International ( HI ) / Mine Advisory Group ( MAG ) / Norwegian People's Aid ( NPA ) as useful foundations for identifying worthwhile mine clearance projects to support . UNMAS reported on the Information Management System for Mine Action ( IMSMA ) , a planning tool for action in mine-affected countries which received widespread interest and support within the SCE . With the encouragement of the SCE , the United Nations has developed guidelines for the use of local militaries in United Nations-supported mine action programmes . The SCE noted the ICBL web site ( www . icbl . org ) and the suggestion that all stakeholders consider contributing to it , including through participation in AE-groups @ . The SCE noted that Landmine Monitor would issue its second report in time for the Second Meeting of the States Parties ( SMSP ) , and that further funding had been requested to complete the report . The SCE commended the GICHD for providing a web site for information related to the work of the SCEs , undertook to provide relevant information and urged all stakeholders to visit and use the SCE portion of the GICHD site . Actions taken or in process to assist in the implementation of the Convention Based upon a statement made by Canada with respect to the compatibility between international standards for mine clearance and obligations under Article 5 of the Convention , the SCE agreed that Convention obligations and international mine clearance standards are not incompatible . With the active encouragement of the SCE , the GICHD is undertaking on behalf of UNDP a Study on the Use of Socio-Economic Analysis in Planning and Evaluating Mine Action . The Survey Action Center has embarked on a programme of Level 1 Survey work in seven countries and has plans for undertaking more . At the suggestion of the SCE , the United Nations agreed to consider making fuller use of the Steering Committee on Mine Action . The SCE called for improved availability of news about mine action , in addition to Landmines magazine and the UNMAS web site . The second Landmine Monitor report would be available for the SMSP and consideration would be given to making available documentation from stakeholders ( e . g . national plans and donor criteria ) on web sites . With the active encouragement of the SCE and at the request of UNDP , Cranfield Mine Action is developing , with the support of the United Kingdom , curricula and training materials to improve the skills of mine action managers , and the first course for senior managers is being held from July-September 2000 . The SCE noted that subsequent courses would be run at the regional or national level , and would require donor support to assist participation . The SCE commended Nicaragua = s initiative in compiling information about national ( internal ) coordination mechanisms and related best practice , encouraged the continuation of this initiative and suggested that all stakeholders actively consider contributing to it . UNMAS was asked to consider the possibility of more closely involving donors in the annual International Meeting of Mine Action Program Directors and Advisers . Recommendations made by the SCE The SCE recommended that all stakeholders contribute to the UNMAS / GICHD process of revising international standards for mine action and encouraged broad participation of mine-affected countries . It was further recommended that UNMAS formally advise countries , through their missions in New York , of the opportunity to comment , with a view to UNMAS submitting these revised standards to the United Nations General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session . In addition , it was recommended that national authorities of mine-affected countries , donors and mine action agencies ensure that the new standards are applied . The SCE recommended that consideration be given to the effective dissemination of revised international standards for mine action ( including the translation of the standards ) and to the Mine Action Support Group ( MASG ) playing an active role in disseminating these standards along with other good practice guidelines , like the Bad Honnef Guidelines . The SCE recommended continued discussions by the Committee on the process of reviewing and revising international standards for mine action , including the implications of applying the standards to the requirements of emergency demining . The SCE recommended that the GICHD , when preparing guidelines for establishing a conducive operating environment for mine clearance , take into account comments and views made by Committee participants , including by the ICBL Mine Action Working Group . In commending the relevance of the Bad Honnef Guidelines , the SCE recommended that HI , MAG and NPA review and expand existing guidance and principles for good practice in humanitarian mine action . The SCE recommended that the UNDP / GICHD present preliminary findings of its Study on the Use of Socio-Economic Analysis in Planning and Evaluating Mine Action to the SMSP and that linkages be further explored between the framework for monitoring and evaluating mine action , as outlined by the International Development Research Centre ( IDRC ) , and the UNDP / GICHD study . In endorsing the work of the Survey Action Center in its continuing programme of Level 1 Surveys , the SCE recommended that UNMAS / SAC disseminate survey findings and underlined the need for funding to enable additional surveys to take place . The SCE recommended that donors indicate clearly their criteria and requirements for funding in order to help governments and mine action organizations seeking funding to provide proposals which are better tailored to meet donors = funding criteria . The SCE recommended that UNMAS and HI / MAG / NPA consult when updating their respective project portfolios in order to make any appropriate linkages and avoid unnecessary duplication of effort ; that each should identify points of contact ; and that other NGOs should consider contributing to these documents . Recognizing that the UNMAS database Mine Action Investments will be effective only if accurate and substantially complete , the SCE recommended that donors contribute full information and provide regular updates . In addition , the SCE recommended that mine-affected countries check the database and notify UNMAS of any inconsistencies or gaps and that UNMAS consider the possibility of including information on private sector resources in the database . The SCE recommended that UNMAS explore linking relevant countries = and organizations = web sites and , if possible , consider incorporating information about mine affected States = national demining programmes . In addition , it was recommended that mine-affected countries provide texts for inclusion in the United Nations database or details of relevant web sites for linkage to the UNMAS web site . The SCE recommended that UNMAS make more use of the Inter-Agency Steering Committee on Mine Action ( which consists of the relevant United Nations organizations involved in mine action , the ICRC and the ICBL ) and noted the suggestion that the Steering Committee consider possible participation by regional agencies . The SCE recommended that the OAS and Southern Africa Development Community ( SADC ) share regional experiences in mine action with a view to enhancing coordination and mutual understanding . The SCE recommended that UNMAS identify further ways of disseminating news on mine action , in addition to the regular publication of the Landmines magazine and regular updates of its web site . The SCE recommended further consideration of the prospects for compiling guidelines based on lessons learned in emergency mine action in the event of natural disasters . In addition , the SCE recommended that UNMAS , in the event of a crisis or emergency mine action response , provide to interested parties regular updates on the affected countries = mine situation . The SCE recommended that the IDRC consider extending to other countries the Internet database which has been created for Mozambique . In the light of its discussion on UNMAS guidelines on the use of the military in mine action , the SCE recommended ( a ) that the United Nations Inter-Agency Coordination Group on Mine Action review the way these guidelines are applied on a case-by-case basis ; ( b ) that States Parties and donors consider the possibility of training military trainers of mine-affected countries ; and ( c ) that non-United Nations mine action stakeholders apply the United Nations guidelines in all circumstances where the use of the military is an option . The SCE recommended that donors and implementing agencies consider a multidisciplinary approach to mine action including , where appropriate , other mine action elements in addition to mine clearance , such as victim assistance and mine awareness education . The SCE recommended that the phasing out of direct assistance to national capacities should begin at the appropriate time so as to reduce reliance on foreign assistance ( e . g . the use of expatriate technical assistants ) when adequate local capacities have been developed . The SCE recommended that all relevant actors retain a flexible approach in following mine action guidelines and Committee recommendations . Reference to supporting documents The reports and other documents relating to the two meetings of the SCE in September 1999 and March 2000 may be found on the web site of the GICHD at www . gichd . ch. The UNMAS database Mine Action Investments can be accessed at www . un . org / Depts / dpko / landmines / . Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on Victim Assistance , Socio-Economic Reintegration and Mine Awareness ( SCE-VA ) to the Second Meeting of the States Parties Introduction The Standing Committee of Experts on Victim Assistance , Socio-Economic Reintegration and Mine Awareness ( SCE-VA ) , established in accordance with the decisions and recommendations of the 3-7 May 1999 First Meeting of the States Parties ( FMSP ) , met in Geneva from 15-17 September 1999 and from 29-31 March 2000 . At the First Meeting of States Parties , it was agreed in accordance with paragraph 25 of the final report of the FMSP and its annex IV that Mexico and Switzerland would serve as Co-Chairs of the SCE-VA , with Japan and Nicaragua serving as Co-Rapporteurs . Representatives of 43 States Parties , 9 States that signed but have not ratified the Convention , 9 other States , UNMAS , UNDP , the United Nations Children's Fund ( UNICEF ) , the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) , the United Nations Department for Disarmament Affairs ( UNDDA ) , the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research ( UNIDIR ) , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , OAS , ICRC , ICBL , GICHD and of numerous other relevant organizations were registered as participants in the SCE-VA meetings . The meetings of the SCE-VA received administrative support from the GICHD . The final report of the second meeting of the SCE-VA containing background information , views , opinions , analysis and recommendations can be found at www . gichd . ch. Its reading is highly recommended . Matters reviewed by the SCE-VA At the first SCE-VA meeting , six ANetwork Groups @ were established to facilitate work in the following thematic areas : collection and dissemination of guidelines ; information and data collection ; victim assistance reporting ; mine / unexploded ordnance ( UXO ) awareness ; portfolio of victim assistance programmes ; and donor coordination . The deliberations and outcomes of the Network Groups were discussed at the second meeting of the SCE-VA . Based on a spirit of partnership , shared commitment , and responsibility between civil society and governments , the SCE-VA discussed a comprehensive and integrated approach to victim assistance . The SCE-VA discussed a definition of Alandmine victim @ which includes directly affected individuals , their families , and mine-affected communities . In addition , the SCE-VA discussed Avictim assistance @ as multi-faceted , and requiring a broad range of activities including prevention , emergency medical care , physical and psychological rehabilitation and socio-economic integration . Also considered was victim assistance being defined as an integrated part of assistance to all victims of violence and trauma and persons with disabilities . The SCE-VA discussed , with a view to guaranteeing a long-term sustainable solution , victim assistance being integrated in a broader context of post-conflict reconstruction and development strategies , without losing sight of the directly affected individuals , families and communities which are specifically targeted by the Convention . In particular , the SCE-VA considered the need to have victim assistance integrated into public health , community development , conflict and violence prevention . In addition , the SCE-VA considered the need to include measures relevant to meeting the needs of victims in the principles of humanitarian and development cooperation . During the first meeting of the SCE-VA , Nicaragua and Mexico agreed to facilitate the Network Group on the Collection and Dissemination of Guidelines . The main objective of the Network Group was to try to make existing victim assistance guidelines , including guidelines on socio-economic reintegration and mine awareness , available to all relevant actors . To achieve this objective , the Network Group : called upon all interested actors to contribute in the collection of existing guidelines ; collected all existing victim assistance guidelines received ; discussed how to disseminate the received existing guidelines ; and discussed the need to disseminate a list with the collected guidelines and relevant information to interested parties . During the first meeting of the SCE-VA , Switzerland agreed to facilitate the Network Group on Information and Data Collection . The Network Group discussed a more systematic and reliable data collection and dissemination . Efforts were focused on base line data and quantifying the impact on public health and reintegration systems , on human and socio-economic development and on the daily life of people and communities . The Network Group emphasized that acquiring victim data should not be an objective in itself but integrated into broader efforts to prevent injuries , assist victims and facilitate better allocation of resources . The Network Group raised issues like national ownership , capacity-building , institutional development and adapting methodologies to reality in the mine-affected countries . The Network Group discussed providing mine-affected countries with methodological support rather than solutions , data collection being handled sensitively , and taking into consideration the impact of data collection on victims . During the first meeting of the SCE-VA , the ICBL and Handicap International agreed to facilitate the Network Group on Victim Assistance Reporting , the purpose of which was to propose a voluntary reporting mechanism . The Network Group raised the issue that , while there is no explicit requirement in the Convention for countries to report on contributions to victim assistance and mine awareness , the Convention requires , in Article 6 , paragraph 3 : AEach State Party in a position to do so shall provide assistance for the care and the rehabilitation , and social and economic reintegration , of mine victims and for mine awareness programmes . @ During the first meeting of the SCE-VA , the ICBL and ICRC agreed to facilitate the Network Group on Mine / UXO Awareness . The Network Group confirmed that appropriate mine / UXO awareness can save lives , that problems faced differ in each situation , but some common elements can be found . During the first meeting of the SCE-VA , the ICBL Working Group on Victim Assistance agreed to facilitate the Network Group on Portfolio of Victim Assistance Programs . The Network Group noted that mention of victim assistance in the Convention has led to a global upsurge of interest in these programmes and that to date there is no global compilation of information on programming . During the first meeting of the SCE-VA , Sweden agreed to facilitate the Network Group on Donor Coordination . The Network Group covered numerous issues of importance ( e . g . recognizing that different States have different needs and understanding the need for both a comprehensive development approach to victim assistance and remembering that victims should not have to wait until macro-level problems are solved before they begin to enjoy a better quality of life ) and identified several ideas for further consideration . Actions taken or in process on the development of specific tools and instruments in order to assist the implementation of the Convention The SCE-VA identified that a strategic , comprehensive and integrated approach to victim assistance is needed and made specific progress in the following areas : ( a ) towards efficient and effective means to monitor Article 6 obligations ; ( b ) in the development , refinement and implementation of various programming and coordination tools ; ( c ) in promoting an information exchange and discussion of various tools for data collection and mine awareness ; ( d ) in promoting various sets of victim assistance and mine awareness guidelines ; and ( e ) in better understanding matters pertaining to victim assistance data collection . The SCE-VA developed a Portfolio of Victim Assistance Programs , the purposes of which are : to raise awareness among governments , donors , and programme implementers on the range of activities that constitute victim assistance ; to promote transparency among all actors in victim assistance ; to highlight needs which have not been addressed because of lack of resources ; and to facilitate contact and information-sharing among actors in victim assistance . Actions taken or in process to assist in the implementation of the Convention Based upon the work of the Network Group on Victim Assistance Reporting , the SCE-VA recognized the importance of reporting by all States Parties on support provided for victim assistance and agreed to continue work on effective and efficient means through which States Parties could report on this matter . Recommendations made by the SCE-VA It was recommended that governments establish a mechanism or designate a focal point through which information on victim assistance guidelines could be channelled to appropriate actors in the field and to those elaborating victim assistance , socio-economic reintegration , mine awareness policies or programmes . It was recommended that governments , international and regional organizations , and NGOs interested or involved in victim assistance , socio-economic reintegration and mine awareness , take into account existing guidelines when developing victims assistance programmes and promote a common culture , based on the partnership of governments , international organizations and civil society , about their usefulness in the formulation of said programmes . It was further recommended that ways and means should be found to translate these guidelines into the languages of mine-affected countries . It was recommended that WHO give due attention to enhancing and assessing the quality and performance of surveillance systems for victim assistance in affected countries . It was recommended that governments , international organizations and NGOs share their information at country level with the local bodies ( e . g . inter-sectoral committees , mine action centres , health authorities ) and make the information public . Governments of affected countries should be encouraged to establish victim assistance web sites . It was recommended that new incidents be covered by an adapted health information system producing simple and rapid information as well as by the Information Management System for Mine Action ( IMSMA ) and that further development of the IMSMA incident module be considered . It was recommended that the WHO integrated surveillance system on victim and trauma be further developed and implemented in a gender-disaggregated form . It was recommended that a platform / clearinghouse for exchange , dissemination and information be established in order to promote transparency , in particular through : the collection and dissemination of standards , methodologies and questionnaires ; the establishment of national platforms and linking them to the international level ; the exchange of research ; and linking existing information about victims . It was further recommended that the GICHD assume this task and develop a test module accessible on its web site . In addition , it was recommended that WHO explore the possibility of engagement in this area . It was recommended that the testing of various tools for victim assistance and mine awareness data collection be promoted . It was recommended that all interested parties continue to work towards efficient and effective means to monitor the implementation of Article 6 , paragraph 3 of the Convention , taking into account the significant work of the Victim Assistance Reporting Network Group . It was recommended that funding be timely , particularly with regards to displaced and returning populations , responsive , appropriate to specific country needs and circumstances , flexible , allowing for the changing reality at the field level , as well as geographically appropriate and coordinated at the donor level . It was recommended that the UNICEF International Guidelines for Mine Awareness be taken into consideration at the outset of programming . It was further recommended that stakeholders should define , together with the mine action coordination body in the mine-affected country , the national standards and methodology for mine action . It was recommended that guidelines be developed for monitoring and evaluating mine / UXO awareness programming and training programmes for mine awareness . It was further recommended that mine / UXO awareness training be integrated into national mine action frameworks . It was recommended that UNICEF continue to provide an open and transparent process ensuring wide participation among mine / UXO awareness actors . It was recommended that UNMAS ensure the integration of the various mine action guidelines into the framework for the development of international standards for mine action . It was recommended that mine / UXO awareness coordination occur whenever possible under a government umbrella , on various levels , including between : ( a ) different implementing agencies involved in mine / UXO awareness programming ; ( b ) the wider mine action community including victim assistance organizations ; and ( c ) the Anon mine action @ humanitarian and development sector , which can bring alternative solutions to mine problems encountered by the communities . It was recommended that mine awareness programmes be implemented in partnership with national mine awareness institutions and actors at the community , regional and national level , from programme identification and assessment , to implementation , monitoring and evaluation . It was further recommended that UNMAS be encouraged to develop a mine / UXO awareness function within the IMSMA to ensure the development of an integrated effective mine action plan and that mine / UXO awareness programming be responsive to both emergency and long-term needs . It was recommended that for the successful implementation of mine action programming , donors / NGOs and all relevant stakeholders ensure that monitoring and evaluation are integral and meaningful parts of all programming . It was recommended that key stakeholders ensure that agencies undertaking mine / UXO awareness activities have a knowledge of and commitment to the existing UNICEF International Guidelines and have ideally a proven capacity and track record of successful programming . It was further recommended that existing mine / UXO awareness agencies should ensure that key documentation is widely available and accessible as learning tools for other agencies . It was recommended that government officials involved in victim assistance receive a copy of the Portfolio as a tool to facilitate contact with other victim assistance actors . It was recommended that States Parties provide resources for the creation and maintenance of a national coordination body , under whose aegis would fall the development of a national Portfolio of Victim Programs . It was recommended that interested parties continue to work together to develop suggestions and recommendations on methods pertaining to more effective donor coordination and long-term resource mobilization with the aim of effectively meeting the immediate and ongoing needs of victims . The focus of this process should be to identify gaps and available resources . It was recommended that , in its future work , the SCE-VA pay due attention to the issues of : ( a ) coordination , with a focus on the clear and precise rationalization of the roles of the major actors in victim assistance ; ( b ) identifying gaps in terms of financial , technical and other resources needed for victim assistance ; and ( c ) measuring progress towards implementation of the Convention , particularly with a focus on examining victim assistance reporting mechanisms . It was recommended that the future work of the SCE-VA should be divided into two types of activities : ( a ) operationalization of work already begun ( e . g . following through on the most salient recommendations of the Network Groups ; setting precise goals ; and collecting and disseminating documents from the SCE-VA ) ; and ( b ) analysis of new themes ( e . g . creating an inventory of existing policies , studies , surveys and lessons learned ; considering links between victim assistance and mine awareness and long-term strategies for sustainable development ; and increasing the participation in mine-affected countries of civil society and , particularly , associations of mine victims and / or persons with disabilities ) . Reference to supporting documents As a result of the work of the SCE-VA = s Network Groups , six papers were produced containing the views of these groups and the proposals put forward by them to the SCE-VA = s March 2000 meeting . These papers can be found at : www . gichd . ch. Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on Stockpile Destruction to the Second Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention Introduction The Standing Committee of Experts ( SCE ) on Stockpile Destruction , established in accordance with the decisions and recommendations of the 3-7 May 1999 First Meeting of the States Parties ( FMSP ) , met in Geneva from 9-10 December 1999 and from 22-23 May 2000 . At the FMSP , it was agreed , in accordance with paragraph 25 of the final report of the FMSP and its annex IV , that Hungary and Mali would serve as Co-Chairs of the SCE , with Malaysia and Slovakia serving as Co-Rapporteurs . Representatives of 47 States , United Nations bodies , the ICRC , ICBL and numerous other relevant organizations were registered as participants in either or both of the two meetings . The meetings of the SCE received administrative support from the GICHD . Matters reviewed by the SCE The SCE solicited the views of delegations with respect to the following thematic areas : stockpile destruction as an integral part of mine action ; allocation of resources - technologies and constraints ; case studies ; stockpile destruction as preventive mine action ; cooperative structures for stockpile destruction ; and the way ahead . The SCE noted its appreciation of the work of the following moderators : Ret. Gen. Gordon M. Reay , Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade , Canada ; Patrick Blagden , GICHD ; Col. Paul Power , Australian Defense Forces ; Steve Goose , Human Rights Watch ; and Adrian Wilkinson , Mine Action Consultant , UNDP . The SCE considered a number of practical issues with a view to highlighting the importance of the core objective of the SCE , namely to facilitate a swift and dramatic reduction in the number of stockpiled anti-personnel mines globally , including the following : ensuring political priority for stockpile destruction ; obligations and rights of countries under Article 4 of the Convention ; merits and constraints of various methods and technologies for destruction as experienced by individual countries ; the role of the military and private sector in stockpile destruction ; logistical , technical and financial considerations ; possible alternatives to the current methods of stockpile destruction ; planning and implementation of the process leading up to the actual destruction of stockpiles ; financial and technical assistanceBbilateral , multilateral and regional approaches to stockpile destruction ; compilation of a database of industrial / research capacities and capabilities ; possible mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating Article 7 reports ; assessing overall progress with regard to stockpile destruction ; progress report on global stockpiles and their destruction ; flow of information on available technologies , costs and environmental impact ; modalities of transfer and storage of foreign stockpiles ; avoiding competition among the various branches and actors of mine action ; engaging the media and the public at large in the process of stockpile destruction ; need for accounting and certification procedures ; compilation of databases on donors , recipients , needs , methods , options , companies , experts ; and possible mechanisms for engaging non-States parties in reducing their stockpiles . It was expected that discussion on all the above matters would continue in the intersessional work programme . As a result of the SCE = s deliberations , it was accepted that stockpile destruction is an integral part , in effect the Afifth pillar @ , of mine action and that , accordingly , compliance with Article 4 obligations should receive high political priority . It was also stressed , however , that this does not suggest unwarranted competition among the different branches of mine action . At the FMSP , participants emphasized the need for the rapid universalization of , adherence to and compliance with the Convention and , in parallel , the importance of prompt and strict compliance with the obligations as stipulated in Article 4 . Accordingly , States were urged to comply with their reporting obligations under Article 7 as a way to facilitate future cooperation between prospective donor States and those requesting assistance in carrying out this important task . In the course of its intersessional work , the Committee sought ways to ensure that the capabilities and capacities of prospective donor States become fully compatible with the needs of States requesting assistance . In addition , the SCE reviewed a wide range of technical options for stockpile destruction , which were introduced in the course of the sessions for consideration . Actions taken or in process on the development of specific tools and instruments in order to assist the implementation of the Convention A web site related to stockpile destruction is expected to be introduced by UNMAS and Canada by September 2000 and States were encouraged to contribute to this effort . Proposed UNDP guidelines on stockpile destruction will be made available on the web as well . A list of companies , experts and technologies related to stockpile destruction is also expected to be introduced in the near future . A cumulative list of companies , experts and technologies could provide a necessary link between the Adonor @ and Arecipient @ countries when designing future cooperative structures . Regarding monitoring and verification requirements , a number of presentations have already been prepared , which serve as good examples . It was acknowledged that case study presentations are a useful tool for maintaining political enthusiasm and that a standardized format for the case study presentations could be identified vis-à-vis the ones that have been presented up to date . The submission of ( annual ) national progress reports on stockpile destruction was not a matter of consensus at this point of time . It was observed that there are a number of relevant questions not included in the Article 7 reporting format ; therefore , a proposal for a separate questionnaire on stockpile destruction was entertained . The important role the ICBL Landmine Monitor plays in reporting on the global stockpile destruction process and contributing to greater transparency on this issue was highly appreciated . Actions taken or in process to assist in the implementation of the Convention The need for additional resources to be secured for stockpile destruction projects was stressed . To this end , the sessions considered various bilateral , multilateral and regional approaches as possible components for establishing cooperative structures for stockpile destruction projects . The initiative launched by Canada and Ukraine was cited in this regard as a useful example for bilateral cooperation , while the establishment of a Partnership for Peace ( PfP ) Trust Fund for stockpile destruction within the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council ( NATO / EAPC ) was singled out as a promising multilateral / regional project with a view to facilitating broad compliance with Article 4 obligations . More than a dozen countries provided insights into their experience with stockpile destruction and representatives offered their respective views with regard to the merits and constraints of various methods of destruction as experienced by individual countries . Financial , technical , social and environmental considerations were also discussed at length , and emphasis was placed on the need for careful planning and implementation of the process leading up to the actual destruction of stockpiles . The importance of engaging the media and the public at large in the process of stockpile destruction was also highlighted by various delegations . The SCE compared the converging or diverging approaches taken by the military and civil sectors in the actions needed for eliminating stockpiled anti-personnel mines . In most cases , it was argued , stockpile destruction in military facilities leads to a substantial reduction of incurred expenses and entails the more efficient utilization of already existing resources . Transparency in this process is also of critical importance , a fact about which the armed forces should be educated . An important role should be assigned to players outside the military to ensure maximum transparency in the process of stockpile destruction ( governmental agencies , mass media , diplomatic corps , etc. ) . The possible roles of UNMAS and UNDP in stockpile destruction projects were also discussed . With its 137 regional centres worldwide , UNDP could facilitate various bilateral or multilateral arrangements with a view to promoting information exchange and technical / financial cooperation in this field . Although the United Nations agencies are traditionally involved in humanitarian demining activities , the possibility of expanding their activities to facilitate stockpile destruction should not be excluded . The possible modalities of such United Nations involvement , e . g . transparency and lessons learned and shared , and financial assistance , were also discussed . Retention of stockpiled anti-personnel mines for training and development purposes under Article 3 was also discussed at length , although the Co-Chairs made the determination that the issue should be referred to the SCE on the General Status and Operation of the Convention for further deliberation . Generally , it was agreed that examination of all options and factors should lead to the destruction of global stocks in the fastest , most cost-effective way and with the least harmful effects to the environment . It was also emphasized that the possibility of adverse environmental impacts brought about by the destruction process should not be used as an excuse for inaction in meeting Article 4 obligations . The Committee agreed that , at the SMSP , the urgency and importance of stockpile destruction should be affirmed . Recommendations made by the SCE It was recommended that those countries that have completed the destruction of their stockpiles should make their expertise available to those in need , because in many instances countries lack the technical experience , industrial capacities or know-how to carry out obligations stipulated in Article 4 of the Convention . It was recommended that States be encouraged to contribute to the questionnaire presented by Canada in support of the development of an UNMAS web site on stockpile destruction . With regard to a complementary database to the Article 7 reports , it was recommended that the SCE Co-Chairs , in cooperation with interested parties , work to develop a questionnaire that would help collect information on needs and assistance offers expressed by non-States Parties . It was recommended that the SCE Co-Chairs develop specific language on recommendations concerning bilateral and multilateral / regional cooperative structures for stockpile destruction . It was recommended that an examination of all options and factors should lead to the destruction of global stocks in the fastest , most cost-effective way and with the least harmful effects to the environment . Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on Technologies for Mine Action to the Second Meeting of the States Parties Introduction The Standing Committee of Experts on Technologies for Mine Action ( SCETMA ) , established in accordance with the decisions and recommendations of the First Meeting of the States Parties ( FMSP ) , which was held from 3-7 May 1999 in Maputo , Mozambique , met in Geneva on 13-14 December 1999 and on 24-25 May 2000 . In accordance with paragraph 25 of the final report of the FMSP , it was agreed that Cambodia and France would serve as Co-Chairs of the SCE , with Germany and Yemen serving as Co-Rapporteurs . Representatives of 34 States that have ratified the Convention , 7 States that signed but have not ratified the Convention , 9 other States , the ICRC , the ICBL and 8 regional and international organizations , including the United Nations , and numerous other relevant organizations , including national mine action centres , universities , research centres and companies , were registered as participants in the SCE meetings . The meetings of the SCE received administrative support from the GICHD . Matters reviewed by the SCE The SCETMA benefited from a pragmatic and clear mandate as well as a lively and dedicated participation by experts whose diversity and complementarity found full expression in the course of the debates . The SCETMA had been mandated to conduct a comparative survey of the needs of the end-users and of the technologies available to them or in development . The Committee fulfilled its mandate by taking into account the constraints which stand in the way of providing end-users with appropriate technologies , as well as the new standards required by the technological progress of mine action . This framework provided ample opportunity to field practitioners , programme managers , specialists from academia and research establishments as well as military and industrial decision-makers , to interact and to exchange information . This provided a better understanding of the adequacy of technologies currently or soon to be available for mine action , of the new international standards that ought to be implemented , and of the most promising progress in technology research . The Committee = s work was enhanced by useful contributions by individuals responsible for mine action field work , including individuals from Mine Action Centres ( e . g . C-MAC ( Cambodia ) , CROMAC , IND-Mozambique , NCHD-Chad , Monitoring , Evaluation and Training Agency ( META ) and MAP-Afghanistan , CND-Nicaragua ) , international organizations ( e . g . UNMAS and UNDP ) and non-governmental organizations ( e . g . ICBL , Handicap International , Mines Advisory Group , Norwegian People's Aid ) and GICHD . The military establishments of donor countries and affected States also participated . The scientific sector ( e . g . RMA-Belgium , ERA-United Kingdom , JRC-European Commission ) and the industrial sector ( e . g . Mechem-South Africa ) provided an overview of the ways used to attempt to adapt existing technologies . End-users and the research and development actors , academics ( e . g . University of Western Australia , Cranfield University , James Madison University , the European Commission Joint Research Centre ( JRC )) discussed their own efforts at rationalizing mine action in the face of the diversity of hurdles it has to overcome . Actions taken or in process on the development of specific tools and instruments in order to assist the implementation of the Convention The SCETMA confirmed that taken separately neither manual demining , nor mine detecting dogs , nor mechanical equipment , holds the key to the landmine problem . The key lies in the so called Atool box @ approach , wherein these techniques and technologies are complementary , and need to be used in different combinations after a careful review of the conditions and environment of each minefield or mine action programme . The SCETMA emphasized different elements of the tool box used by different mine action centres , from Cambodia to Afghanistan , Mozambique , Chad , Nicaragua or Croatia . The diverse elements presented reflect varying sets of constraints , ranging from human , geographical and climatic conditions , to financial , organizational or political limitations . Mine action centres are well placed to give proper consideration , for instance , to the variety of mines in place in the same area , or to the demands made on the mobility and modularity of teams and equipment , in consideration of different conditions in the field , from waterlogged to arid soils , from sandy to rocky terrains , etc. The SCETMA noted that while the tool box approach is widely accepted , there is room for a variety of opinions on other aspects of mine action in the field . With respect to mine detection dogs ( MDD ) for example , the experience of deminers in Afghanistan shows that MDDs are fast and effective , provided they are assigned appropriate tasks in area reduction or clearance in low-density mined areas . However , deminers in Kosovo pointed out that it is indispensable to adopt an accredition procedure in order to guarantee , before and during clearance operations , the quality of dogs supplied . The University of Western Australia suggested Adouble blind tests @ for dogs and supervisors . Universal interest in the MDD tool , and lingering doubts on its proper use , have led UNMAS and the GICHD to launch no less than eight studies to cover every aspect of the MDD technique in the course of the next few years . The SCETMA noted different , but not irreconcilable , approaches to the use of mechanical equipment . Suppliers of heavy equipment stressed its effectiveness if assigned appropriate tasks , from road clearance to vegetation-cutting and other preparations of the field . Practitioners in the field underlined the need for multi-purpose platforms and increased sustainability of the equipment purchased or leased , and for improved procedures for testing in the field . All were in agreement on the necessity to integrate the selection of appropriate mechanical equipment in the early stages of planning for demining . The SCETMA exposed concern at the multiplication of databases and information technologies available , and the need to promote compatibility and interconnectednesss . Field workers insisted on the need to preserve an end-user friendly approach . Progress made by the GICHD Information Management System for Mine Action ( IMSMA ) was applauded - a system which between the two meetings of the SCETMA was developed and tested in a growing list of mine-affected countries . The SCETMA acknowledged the importance of the current exhaustive review of United Nations norms and standards . End-users will systematically be associated with this process . The new United Nations standards will also be compatible with those of the International Organization for Standardization ( ISO ) . However , concern was raised regarding the need to identify who will assume the responsibility for implementing these standards and verifying their correct implementation . The SCETMA noted that stakeholders in mine action now realize that the time-lines of scientific innovation and progress and those of demining requirements are not necessarily the same . It was undersand that States most active in research and development of new demining technologies do so primarily for military reasons , with less attention to the particular needs of humanitarian demining . This bias , however , was not universal : international ( International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA )) , regional ( European Commission-JRC ) , and national institutions do have specific programmes or projects aimed at humanitarian demining . All stakeholders agreed to stress the importance of a cooperative approach among researchers , developers and deminers . Actions taken or in process to assist in the implementation of the Convention To faciliate the implementation of the Convention , the SCETMA concluded that there is an overall need to nurture a dual approach in the field of mine action technology , namely : the development of simple , end-user friendly technologies based on improving existing material , as being essential to ease the burden of deminers and to speed up ongoing programmes ; and the search for high-tech innovations , as being critical to save lives , time and money in the longer term . Recommendations made by the SCE With the view that cooperation between mine action stakeholders must be strengthened in several ways and at several levels , the SCETMA recommended : The exchange of relevant information between end-users , in particular between mine action centres ; The systematic field testing of new technologies in order ( a ) to provide researchers with a better appreciation of the improvements needed and a better access to data acquired by deminers and ( b ) to increase deminers' awareness and acceptance of new technologies ; The facilitation of the transfer of equipment through the adoption and implementation of Ademining friendly regulations @ ; The development of integrated databases such as IMSMA and fostering of the compatibility and interconnection of existing databases ; Facilitating access to national resources in terms of conventional and digitalized maps , surveys and other relevant documentation concerning mined areas , subject to national regulations and considerations of national security ; The development of software , using information available in databases , with a view to assist those responsible for mine action in their choice of adapted technologies ; Setting up of a network of probing facilities and international testing centres ; Defining common standards for field testing ; and Defining mechanisms and procedures to allocate new technologies to mine action teams ( e . g . with respect to its discussion on UNMAS policy on the use of militaries in mine action , the SCETMA recommended ( a ) that the United Nations Inter-Agency Coordination Group on Mine Action review the way these guidelines are applied on a case-by-case basis , ( b ) that States Parties and donors consider the possibility of training military trainers of mine-affected countries , and ( c ) that non-United Nations mine action stakeholders be urged to apply United Nations guidelines in all circumstances where the use of the military is an option ) . Report of the Standing Committee of Experts on the General Status and Operation of the Convention to the Second Meeting of the States Parties Introduction The Standing Committee of Experts ( SCE ) on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , established in accordance with the decisions and recommendations of the First Meeting of the States Parties ( FMSP ) , held from 3-7 May 1999 in Maputo , Mozambique , met in Geneva at the International Conference Centre on 10-11 January 2000 , and at the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining ( GICHD ) on 29-30 May 2000 . In accordance with paragraph 25 of the final report of the FMSP and the report = s annex IV , it was agreed that Canada and South Africa would serve as Co-Chairs of the SCE , with Belgium and Zimbabwe serving as Co-Rapporteurs . Representatives of 43 States that have ratified the Convention , 9 States that signed but have not ratified the Convention , 10 other States , the ICRC , ICBL , 7 regional and international organizations , including the United Nations , and 13 non-governmental organizations were registered as participants in the meetings . The Meeting received administrative support from the GICHD . Matters reviewed by the SCE The Committee discussed the need to continue efforts in support of the universalization of the Convention and noted the continued growth in the number of States that have formally accepted the obligations of the Convention . The ongoing work of a number of States to encourage universalization was noted , as were the efforts of various international organizations , the ICBL and the ICRC . The Committee discussed progress made in implementation of and compliance with Article 7 of the Convention . While the rate of compliance with the Convention = s transparency provisions , contained in Article 7 , is not dramatically different relative to other Conventions , concern was raised that several States have not yet provided required reports . The importance of timely , consistent and detailed reporting was highlighted and recommendations were made with respect to the reporting process . The Committee discussed measures taken to implement Article 9 of the Convention , particularly the need to promote greater understanding of the different approaches taken with respect to national implementation measures . In addition , the Committee heard concerns about only a limited number of States Parties having established legislation as part of the Aappropriate legal , administrative and other measures , including the imposition of penal sanctions @ , as required in terms of Article 9 of the Convention . The Committee discussed matters pertaining to Article 2 , particularly matters related to anti-handling devices and the sensitivity of anti-vehicle mines = fusing devices . Ideas , like examining these issues through informal expert work and working towards the agreement by States Parties on an understanding on the matter were put forward . There was no agreement on proceeding with either idea at this time , although an ICRC initiative to discuss these matters was welcomed . Several States Parties affirmed their view ( a ) that mines equipped with anti-handling devices that activate when no attempt has been made to tamper with or otherwise intentionally disturb these mines are in fact anti-personnel mines as defined by the Convention and ( b ) that fusing mechanisms that cause anti-vehicle mines to function as anti-personnel mines are also anti-personnel mines as defined by the Convention . The Committee received the views of the ICBL with respect to States Parties working towards a common understanding of which acts are and are not permitted under paragraph ( c ) of Article 1 of the Convention . In particular the ICBL called for a common interpretation of the term Aassist @ , especially relating to the use of anti-personnel mines by non-States Parties in joint operations with States Parties and the stockpiling and transit of foreign-owned anti-personnel mines . The Committee highlighted the need for greater understanding of matters pertaining to anti-personnel mines retained for training and development under Article 3 of the Convention . To this end , the Committee received numerous reports from States Parties clarifying the reasons why mines are retained , how mines have been used to date and how they will be used in a manner consistent with Article 3 in the future . The Committee heard the view that mines retained under Article 3 should be kept to a minimum . The Committee received the views of the ICBL with respect to States Parties meeting their obligations under Article 6 of the Convention and , in particular , reviewed the need to provide support for victim assistance programmes . The Committee also reviewed the development and implementation of the UNMAS database of donor activity , Mine Action Investments . The Committee discussed the relationship between United Nations standards for mine clearance and Article 5 of the Convention , concluding that there is no contradiction between the two . The Committee discussed the need to examine matters pertaining to the operationalization of Article 8 in order that all structures and methodologies are in place for smooth execution whenever needed . To this end , the Committee agreed to an ongoing action to further discuss these matters . The Committee evaluated the first intersessional work programme and highlighted the need to make improvements , principally to streamline the process and address participation issues . To this end , the Committee made numerous recommendations . The Committee discussed a number of matters pertaining to preparations for the SMSP and recommended a draft agenda , a draft programme of work , draft amendments to the FMSP rules of procedure , and draft provisional cost estimates . The Committee also made a number of administrative decisions , including agreeing to the venue for the Meeting and to a plan for documentation . Tools and instruments developed or being developed to assist in the implementation of the Convention With respect to Article 7 , the Committee received an overview of the UNDDA Internet database of reports submitted under the Article . While ideas to enhance the reporting process were heard , like moving to direct Internet-based reporting , the Committee recognized that immediate efforts with respect to Article 7 reporting should be focused on encouraging a higher rate of compliance and taking small measures to facilitate the process . These small measures include States Parties , when possible , submitting reports electronically and , when submitting an annual update , to highlight the changes in relation to earlier reports . Also with respect to Article 7 , States Parties were invited to work with the ICBL on developing a reporting guide as a means of increasing the quantity and quality of the Article 7 reports . The ICBL was invited to make a progress report to the next meeting of the SCE . With respect to Article 6 , the Committee welcomed the UNMAS database Mine Action Investments , developed with the assistance of Canada , as a practical means for donors to share information on their activities for the purpose of enhanced coordination and greater transparency . Donors were encouraged to enter data into the database before the SMSP in order to increase the usefulness of this tool and to allow for more substantial analysis of donor activity . Monitoring participation in the database was considered a useful ongoing task for the Committee . With respect to Article 9 , States Parties were invited to work with the ICBL and other interested parties on developing a sample package of existing implementation legislation to assist other States Parties in establishing legislation . A progress report should be made on this issue at the next SCE . Actions taken or in process to assist in the implementation of the Convention With respect to Article 5 , based upon a statement made by Canada with respect to the compatibility between international standards for mine clearance and Convention obligations under Article 5 , the SCE agreed that Convention obligations and international mine clearance standards are not incompatible . With respect to Article 7 , the Co-Chairs of the Committee agreed to continue to coordinate joint actions to encourage compliance with Article 7 . With respect to Article 2 , the Committee welcomed as a useful step forward the offer of the ICRC to host technical discussions on how to minimize the risk of detonation of anti-handling devices through accidental or inadvertent contact and on sensitive fusing mechanisms for anti-vehicle mines . The ICRC indicated that these discussions may be held in early 2001 and encouraged States Parties to prepare technical studies on these issues for discussion at that time . Details on the proposed seminar will be provided at the next meeting of the Committee . With respect to Article 8 , based upon a paper developed by Canada and discussed at the Committee = s second meeting , the Committee agreed that expert work should proceed in the lead-up to the first post-SMSP meeting of the Committee on elaborating upon Astandards of evidence @ which may be used as a basis for initiating a ARequest for Clarification @ , the maintenance of a list of experts , fact-finding missions and financial issues . Recommendations made by the SCE With respect to the post-SMSP intersessional work programme , the Committee made the following recommendations for consideration by States Parties at the SMSP : ( a ) Duration of Meetings : It was recommended that only three periods of meetings be held annually , including the Meeting of States Parties . That is , each SCE shall meet twice between Meetings of States Parties , once during an initial week-long session of meetings in November or December 2000 and once during a week-long session of meetings in May 2001 . ( b ) Number of Committees : In the interest of efficiency , it was recommended that directly related themes be merged into one SCE , particularly that the Committees for Mine Clearance and Technologies for Mine Action be combined into one Committee without excluding discussions on technology , when necessary , on the part of the Committees on Victim Assistance , Socio-Economic Reintegration and Mine Awareness , and on Stockpile Destruction . Thus there would be four Committees as follows : Mine Clearance and Related Technologies ( meeting for 1.5 days during each of the two week-long sessions of meetings ) Victim Assistance , Socio-Economic Reintegration and Mine Awareness ( meeting for 1.5 days during each of the two week-long sessions of meetings ) Stockpile Destruction ( meeting for 1 day during each of the two week-long sessions of meetings ) General Status and Operation of the Convention ( meeting for 1 day during each of the two week-long sessions of meetings ) . Example : ( c ) Language of Proceedings : To further enhance active participation in the work of the Committees , it was recommended that States in a position to do so consider making voluntary contributions to have additional languages made available for the intersessional meetings . ( d ) Date of Meetings : It was recommended that the first of the two week-long sessions of meetings take place in November / December 2000 . It is further recommended that the second of the two week-long sessions of meetings take place in May 2001 . ( e ) Supporting Participation : It was recommended that consideration be given to developing a mechanism to provide for assistance to support participation in meetings of the Convention . ( f ) Role of Co-Chairs : It was recommended that Committee Co-Chairs may , as appropriate , seek ongoing support and advice of past Co-Chairs . ( g ) Name Change : It was recommended that the Standing Committees of Experts ( SCEs ) be referred to as Standing Committees ( SCs ) . ( h ) Post-SMSP Rapporteurs : It was recommended that the following States be nominated to serve as Committee Rapporteurs following the SMSP : Mine Clearance and Related Technologies : Germany and Yemen Victim Assistance , Socio-Economic Reintegration and Mine Awareness : Canada and another State to be determined Stockpile Destruction : Australia and Croatia General Status and Operation of the Convention : Norway and Thailand With respect to the Article 7 reporting process , the Committee made the following recommendations for consideration by States Parties at the SMSP : ( a ) In order to provide States Parties with the opportunity to report voluntarily on matters pertaining to compliance and implementation not covered by the formal reporting requirements contained in Article 7 , it was recommended that States Parties amend the Article 7 reporting format to include an additional form : AForm J : Other relevant matters @ . ( b ) It was further recommended that States Parties consider using this form to report on activities undertaken with respect to Article 6 , in particular to report on assistance provided for the care and rehabilitation , and social and economic reintegration , of mine victims . Reference to supporting documents The UNDDA database of reports submitted under Article 7 can be found at : http://domino.un.org/Ottawa.nsf. The UNMAS database of donor activity , Mine Action Investments , can be found at : http://www.un.org/Depts/dpko/mine/. The statement made by Canada with respect to Article 5 ( see paragraph 20 above ) can be found appended to the report of the first meeting of the Committee at : www . gichd . ch. The paper circulated by Canada with respect to Article 8 ( see paragraph 23 above ) can be found appended to the report of the second meeting of the Committee at : www . gichd . ch. The draft amendment to the Article 7 reporting format ( see paragraph 25 above ) can be found appended to the report of the second meeting of the Committee at : www . gichd . ch. PRESIDENT = S ACTION PROGRAMME Background At the First Meeting of the States Parties , the intersessional programme was established to focus and advance the international community = s mine action efforts and to measure progress made in achieving our objectives . This programme , which involved the work of five Standing Committees of Experts ( SCEs ) , was designed to serve as a practical means to assist in the implementation of the Convention . The President = s Action Programme has been developed to help in this process of implementation by identifying practical steps that can be taken in accordance with the recommendations of the SCEs . It provides a summary of concrete initiatives and activities that flow from the work of the SCEs as well as other specific initiatives that have been announced since the conclusion of the work of the SCEs or during the Second Meeting of the States Parties ( SMSP ) itself . In doing so , it is a mechanism that both builds upon past work and is forward looking in ensuring that the aims of the SCEs are realized . In addition , to assist in the coordination of our collective efforts , the President = s Action Programme includes a rolling calendar of future mine action activities that are consistent with this objective . In developing their work plans for the 2000-2001 Standing Committees , Co-Chairs of the various Standing Committees are encouraged to facilitate the implementation of relevant portions of the President = s Action Programme . In addition , States Parties and other parties are urged to consider participating in the implementation of the actions listed in this document and implementing , where relevant , other recommendations contained in the reports of the Standing Committees of Experts . ( See annex IV . Mine clearance and related technologies Revising technical standards for mine action : The SCE recommended that all mine action partners be encouraged to contribute to the process of revising international standards for mine action being undertaken by the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining ( GICHD ) on behalf of the United Nations Mine Action Service ( UNMAS ) , and that work should be undertaken to support their effective dissemination and implementation . UNMAS , in conjunction with the GICHD , will soon make a final draft of the standards available on its web site and advise interested parties of the site details and request comment . Revising guidelines for mine action : The relevance of mine action guidelines and principles for good practice was recognized by the SCE . To follow-up on this recommendation , preliminary work undertaken by Handicap International ( HI ) , the Mines Advisory Group ( MAG ) , Norwegian Peoples Aid ( NPA ) and the Bad Honnef group will be further revised and disseminated by the ICBL Mine Action Working Group ( MAWG ) . Developing indigenous capacities for mine action : The critical importance of developing indigenous mine action capacities and reinforcing national leadership was highlighted by the SCE . In support of this objective , the United Nations Development Programme ( UNDP ) is providing assistance to 15 mine-affected countries . This assistance includes the establishment of mine action centres and the provision of training and resource mobilization . In addition , UNDP is currently conducting a management training course for senior mine action officials , and further courses are planned . Furthermore , numerous non-governmental organizations are also developing mine action capacities in mine-affected countries . Enhancing transparency in mine action funding : It was recognized by the SCE that the UNMAS database of donor activity , Mine Action Investments , will be effective only if the data is substantially complete and if progress is made towards the database becoming the definitive source for donor activity . UNMAS is continuing to work to encourage donors to enter both data on donor activity and information on donors = policies regarding the provision of mine action funding . Improving the operating environment for mine clearance : It was recommended by the SCE that action be taken to establish best practices with respect to ensuring a conducive operating environment for mine clearance . To this end the ICBL Mine Action Working Group will prepare recommendations which will be brought to the Standing Committee on Mine Clearance . Supporting socio-economic analysis in planning and evaluating mine action : It was recommended by the SCE that the findings of studies on socio-economic impacts and mine action undertaken by the GICHD on behalf of UNDP be widely disseminated . In addition , it was recognized that mine clearance should be integrated , where relevant , into the larger context of reconstruction , development and peace-building . To follow-up on this recommendation , UNDP will widely disseminate their study and produce a socio-economic handbook for mine action managers . Training and workshops may also be conducted in mine-affected countries . In addition , the Survey Working Group , the International Peace Research Institute , Oslo ( PRIO ) and the NPA will make available the standards and protocols that they have developed as well as independent studies that will help to establish socio-economic indicators . Improving the exchange of mine action information : A number of recommendations were made by the SCE with respect to further disseminating information on mine action and enhancing mine action information tools . To this end , UNMAS is working to link its web-based project portfolio with non-governmental organizations = portfolios and is considering adding to its web-site country data-input opportunities and more links to mine-affected sites and mine action centres . ( See : http://www.un.org/Depts/dpko/mine/. ) UNMAS is also undertaking a number of other steps ( e . g . , working with the Spokesman = s Office , contributing content to other mine action information sources , etc. ) within the United Nations system to improve upon the dissemination of information . In addition , the ICBL MAWG will update the NGO portfolios and make them available on the Internet . Reciprocal links will be developed amongst numerous relevant organizations . Improving the quality of mine action information from the field : The SCE endorsed the work of the Survey Action Centre ( SAC ) and recommended that survey findings be disseminated and that further surveys take place . To this end , surveys are being undertaken or planned for Cambodia , Chad , Lebanon , Mozambique and Thailand . Improving the testing and evaluation of demining equipment : The SCE recommended that measures be taken to enhance the testing and evaluation of mine clearance equipment , with a focus on technologies that are affordable , accessible and appropriate . An International Test and Evaluation Program ( ITEP ) for humanitarian demining equipment , processes and methods has been established through a Memorandum of Understanding signed on 17 July 2000 between the European Commission , Canada , the United States , Belgium , the United Kingdom , the Netherlands and Sweden . The ITEP mandate is to develop methods for test and evaluation and to use these methods to evaluate demining equipment before it is deployed to the field . Victim assistance , socio-economic reintegration and mine awareness Disseminating information on victim assistance programmes : A number of actions were proposed by the SCE with respect to the development and distribution of a portfolio of victim assistance programmes in order to highlight the range of victim assistance activities , promote transparency in programming and highlight current gaps in our efforts . The ICBL Working Group on Victim Assistance ( WGVA ) , as the facilitator of the Portfolio Network Group of the Standing Committee of Experts on Victim Assistance , produced the Portfolio of Victims Assistance Programs , which was distributed at the SMSP . The WGVA will make the Portfolio more broadly available via the Internet and other distribution methods and will update it annually if it is deemed to be a useful tool . Enhancing transparency in victim assistance programming : The SCE recommended that further work be undertaken to enhance transparency surrounding the implementation of , and compliance with , Article 6.3 of the Convention regarding the provision of assistance to landmine victims . Consequently , ICBL WGVA will continue its work to provide States Parties with guidance on how to effectively report on implementation of Article 6.3 of the Convention , including providing suggestions on how to use AForm J @ in the amended Article 7 reporting format . Disseminating victim assistance information through national focal points : The SCE recommended that governments establish a focal point on victim assistance from which information such as the global portfolio , guidelines and methodologies could be channelled to relevant actors . The World Health Organization ( WHO ) and the United Nations Children = s Fund ( UNICEF ) together with the ICBL will approach all relevant States by December 2000 to designate these focal points . Coordinating donor activity : The SCE recommended that interested parties further develop more effective methods of donor coordination , at both the country and global levels . Sweden will work with interested parties to facilitate the establishment of mechanisms , which would interact directly with relevant victim assistance coordinating bodies in mine-affected countries . ( Note : Mozambique , Bosnia and Herzegovina and Afghanistan and others have already established coordinating mechanisms . Disseminating and encouraging implementation of all victim assistance guidelines : Relevant parties were encouraged by the SCE to take into account existing victim assistance guidelines when developing and evaluating victim assistance programmes . To this end , the International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) , WHO , UNICEF , ICBL and UNMAS have distributed the major guidelines on victim assistance to mine action centres , demining institutes , governments and numerous other relevant organizations . These organizations will ensure additional distribution of guidelines as required . In addition , the GICHD will contribute to the collection and dissemination of guidelines through its web site and documentation centre . Disseminating and implementing mine awareness guidelines : Relevant parties were encouraged by the SCE to ensure that the UNICEF Guidelines for Mine Awareness are widely disseminated as a learning tool for programming agencies and integrated into programme development . UNICEF will continue its active dissemination of the Mine Awareness Guidelines . In addition , on 12 September 2000 , UNICEF launched its initiative aimed at training programme managers and mine awareness community facilitators . Improving victim assistance data and information management : The SCE recommended that enhancements be made to the Information Management System for Mine Action ( IMSMA ) to take into consideration data related to mine awareness and mine incidents . To this end , UNMAS and the GICHD are further developing and refining relevant IMSMA modules . In addition , the SCE recommended that WHO further develop its integrated surveillance system on victims and trauma in a gender-disaggregated form . WHO will follow-up on this recommendation . Improving victim assistance information and data collection : A number of actions were proposed by the SCE with respect to obtaining more reliable victim assistance data and more effectively disseminating these data . In addition , Landmine Survivors Network will , with support from UNMAS , expand the Rehab Service Database . Stockpile destruction Providing assistance for stockpile destruction : It was recommended by the SCE that those parties that have completed the destruction of their stockpiles make their expertise available to those in need . To this end , Switzerland will establish a training programme for stockpile destruction management . Furthermore , to assist in fulfilling this objective in the Americas , Argentina and Canada , in cooperation with the Organization of American States ( OAS ) and the United Nations Department for Disarmament Affairs ( UNDDA ) , will host a seminar in Buenos Aires on 6-7 November 2000 . Improving the exchange of information on stockpile destruction : It was agreed within the SCE that efforts should be made to collect and exchange more information on the stockpile destruction needs of States Parties and other States , and the assistance available to meet these needs . Accordingly , Canada is assisting UNMAS in developing a web site to facilitate information exchanges on experiences and best practices in stockpile destruction and to enable States that may need technical assistance to make their needs known . In addition , UNDP has compiled a number of case studies on stockpile destruction which it will disseminate . Destroying mines in an efficient and environmentally sound manner : Discussions were held within the SCE on ways and means to ensure that global stocks are destroyed in the fastest , most cost-effective way and with the least harmful effects to the environment . To facilitate exchanges of technical information on these issues , Hungary and Canada will host a seminar in early 2001 on the unique challenges associated with the destruction of PFM mines , which , if not handled properly , can corrode and cause significant damage to individuals and the environment . General status and operation of the Convention Universalizing the Convention : The importance of continuing efforts leading to the universalization of the Convention was highlighted by the SCE . Several States Parties , including Argentina , Australia , Belgium , Canada , Hungary , the Netherlands , Norway , South Africa , Switzerland and the United Kingdom , along with the ICRC and ICBL , have agreed to continue activities of an informal and open-ended Universalization Contact Group to facilitate coordinated action with a view to encouraging additional ratifications and accessions to the Convention . In addition , France and Canada , in cooperation with the Organization of African Unity ( OAU ) , are organizing a conference on the universalization and implementation of the Convention in Africa , to be hosted by Mali in Bamako on 15-16 February 2001 . Encouraging compliance with Article 7 : The SCE recommended that joint efforts be undertaken to encourage compliance with Article 7 of the Convention . To this end , Belgium has agreed to continue to coordinate these efforts with the participation of all interested parties . In addition , Belgium will work with interested States , the ICBL and UNDDA to develop a guide to completing Article 7 reports . Continuing dialogue on Article 2 : The SCE welcomed the offer by the ICRC to host discussions to examine the technical characteristics of existing stocks of anti-vehicle mines , as well as those that may be acquired in the future , to ensure that they are designed to minimize the risk to civilians . The ICRC has confirmed that it will host discussions on these matters in March or April 2001 and will provide further details on the structure of and preparations for the meeting in time for the December 2000 Standing Committee meetings . Operationalizing Article 8 : The SCE agreed that expert work should proceed on matters pertaining to operationalization of Article 8 . To this end , Canada will host a workshop in Ottawa in November 2000 to prepare detailed recommendations in time for possible review in December 2000 by the Standing Committee on the Status and Operation of the Convention . Clarifying matters pertaining to mines retained under Article 3 : The SCE highlighted the need for greater understanding of matters pertaining to anti-personnel mines retained for training and development under Article 3 of the Convention and received numerous clarifications from States Parties on this matter . To further clarify reasons why mines are retained and used in a manner consistent with Article 3 , the Co-Chairs of the Standing Committee on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , Belgium and Zimbabwe , will continue a dialogue on this topic during future meetings of the Standing Committee . Promoting the establishment of national implementing legislation : The SCE invited States Parties to work with interested organizations to develop a sample package of existing implementation legislation to assist other States Parties in establishing legislation . In response to this suggestion , the ICRC will work with the ICBL , the Co-Chairs of the Standing Committee on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , Belgium and Zimbabwe , and other interested parties on developing and disseminating such a package of legislation . Preparing for meetings of the States Parties : The SCE undertook to prepare for the Second Meeting of the States Parties . To build upon this practice , the Co-Chairs of the Standing Committee on the General Status and Operation of the Convention , Belgium and Zimbabwe , will ensure that work proceeds in preparation for the Third Meeting of the States Parties . As part of this work , the Co-Chairs will review the rules of procedure in consultation with the Coordinating Committee . September 16 : Handicap International Landmines Day . Events in Belgium , France , Germany and Luxembourg . Shoe pyramids in 16 cities throughout France . Contact : Handicap International , sylviebrigotHI @ compuserve . com or www . handicap-international . org 19-20 : Varese , Italy . Use of Satellites and Integrated Technologies for Humanitarian Purposes co-organized by EURISY and the European Commission / Joint Research Centre . Contact : Tel +39 0332 789370 ; Fax : +39 0332 782435 ; email : dorit . schlittenhardt @ jrc . org 21 : Brussels , Belgium . Landmines Awareness Day in the European Parliament . Contact : sylviebrigotHI @ compuserve . com 22 : Queensland , Australia . Exhibition opening at the Queensland Museum on refugees and landmines . Exhibitions throughout Queensland 22 September-19 November organized by Austcare . Contact : qldoffice @ austcare . org . au 25 : Bogota , Colombia : Launching of the book , Sembrando minas , cosechando muerte . Contact : cccminas2 @ cccminas . org 28 : Tokyo , Japan : Symposium on Landmines . Contact : shimizu @ jca . ax . apc . org 28-29 : Luanda , Angola . SADC Landmine Victim Assistance Workshop to develop a "" SADC Plan of Action for Landmine Victims "" organized by SADC's Regional Mine Action Coordination Office in Gaborone , Botswana . Contact : JML Ndlovu at JMNdlovu @ sadc . int October 7-15 : Australia . Refugee Week . Clearing a Safe Path . Events in all states . Contact : qldoffice @ austcare . org . au 8 : Spain and France . Cambodian Landmine Dancers with 13 year old survivor Srey Mom tours Spain and France from 8 October-4 December . Contact : camban @ camnet . com . kh 11 : Colombia . Conference at the University of Los Andes - AColombia and Anti-Personnel Mines : What you can do . @ Contact : cccminas2 @ cccminas . org 17 : Azerbaijan . On the occasion of Azerbaijan Republic Day , "" Azerbaijan without Mines "" meeting with participation of governmental institutes , national NGOs , political parties and journalists . Contact : root @ ipd . baku . az 18 : Sydney , Australia . Media event and presentation to Cambodian Para-Olympics Team of mine survivors . Contact : fmorgan @ ncca . org . au or AUSAID 25-27 : Djibouti , Republic of Djibouti . Horn of Africa / Gulf of Aden Conference on Landmines hosted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Djibouti in collaboration with the Institute for Practical Research and Training . Contact : Tel / Fax : +252 2 52 3152 or ahesa @ rocketmail . com 28 : Djibouti : Landmine Monitor Meeting for Horn of Africa Researchers . Contact : ahesa @ rocketmail . com or lm @ icbl . org November 4-5 : Buenos Aires , Argentina . Americas Landmine Monitor researchers and ICBL campaigners meeting . Contact : macinfo @ web . ca 6-7 : Buenos Aires , Argentina . Regional Seminar on Stockpile Destruction of Antipersonnel Mines co-hosted by the Governments of Argentina and Canada in collaboration with the OAS Mine Action Program and the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace , Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean ( UN-Lirec ) . Contact : Mélanie Régimbal , Mine Action Team , Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade ( Canada ) ; fax : 1 613 944 2501 ; email : melanie . regimbal @ dfait-maeci . gc . ca ; or : Santiago Villalba , Division of International Security , Nuclear and Space Affairs , Ministry of Foreign Affairs . Fax : 5411 4819 7828 ; email svi @ mrecic . gov . ar 12-13 : Bandar Seri Begawan , Brunei Darussalam : APEC Summit . 13 : Melbourne , Australia . World Vision Australia International Landmines Seminar . Objectives : a forum for exchange between NGOs , interested members of the public and landmine sectoral specialists , on current issues for advocacy and programming . Contact : Heather Elliott , World Vision Australia : Fax : +61 3 9287 2315 , email : elliotth @ wva . org . au X : Ottawa , Canada . Workshop on the operationalization of Article 8 . Contact : kerry . brinkert @ dfait-maeci . gc . ca X : Kiribati . South Pacific Forum . Contact : http://www.forumsec.org.fj/ X : International Landmines Conference hosted by World Vision Australia . Contact : Rob Lutton , World Vision Australia , luttonr @ wva . org . au December 3 : International . Third Anniversary of the Opening for Signature of the 1997 Landmines Convention and International Day for Disabled Persons . 4-8 Geneva , Switzerland . Meetings of the Standing Committees established by the SMSP to the Convention . Contact : GICHD . Tel : 41 22 906 1662 / 63 ; Fax : 41 22 906 1690 ; email : gichd @ gichd . ch ; web site : http://www.gichd.ch 4-8 : St. Petersburg , Russia . First Hockey-on-Prostheses Championship . Contact : International Institute for Prosthetic Rehabilitation of Landmine Survivors , Tel : 781-297-1204 ; email : mpitkin @ lifespan . org 11-15 : Geneva , Switzerland . Meeting of States Parties to the Amended Protocol II of the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons . X : Paris : European Union Summit . February 15-16 : Bamako , Mali . Seminar on Universalization and Implementation of the Ottawa Convention in Africa organized by France , Canada and the OAU . Contact : Sébastien Carrière , Mine Action Team , Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade ( Canada ) ; fax : 1 613 944 2501 ; email : sebastien . carriere @ dfait-maeci . gc . ca May 7-11 Geneva , Switzerland . Meetings of the Standing Committees established by the SMSP to the Convention . Contact : GICHD . Tel : 41 22 906 1662 / 63 ; Fax : 41 22 906 1690 ; email : gichd @ gichd . ch ; web site : http://www.gichd.ch While the President's Action Programme is designed to build upon the work undertaken by the SCEs during 1999-2000 , this document is forward looking . Therefore , the President's Action Programme has been divided into sections that reflect the 2000-2001 Committee structure ."	Information/Explanation
1420	"Direct Auger recombination causes droop , but its impact can be diminished inserting graded layers into quantum wells to smooth the confining potentials . Calculations by a partnership between at Technion-Israel Institute of Technology and the US Naval Research Laboratory show that a ' softer ' potential reduces Auger recombination , leading to an increase in LED efficiency . The debate over the origin of LED droop has taken yet another twist , with a partnership between researchers at Technion-Israel Institute of Technology and the US Naval Research Laboratory claiming that direct Auger recombination is to blame . This view is at odds with that of many other theorists , who account for droop - the reduction in light efficiency as current is cranked up - with either more complex forms of Auger recombination or models involving defects . For example , Chris Van de Walle's computational science group at the University of California , Santa Barbara , claims that the primary causes of droop are Auger-related processes involving phonons and alloy disorder . And a partnership between researchers at Boston University and Politecnico di Torino , Italy , argue that although Auger-related processes contribute to droop , carrier leakage , compositional fluctuations and threading dislocations may also play significant roles . These differences over the cause of droop stem from differences in the structures under study , according to Roman Vaxenburg from Technion-Israel Institute of Technology . He has his co-workers have looked at quantum well structures , while others have focused on calculations for bulk material . "" In general , in bulk material , Auger recombination is not efficient due to strict energy and momentum conservation requirements , "" explains Vaxenburg . "" On the contrary , in quantum-confined systems , such as quantum wells , the momentum conservation requirement if lifted and Auger processes are enhanced . "" Values calculated by the US-Israeli team for the Auger coefficient in quantum wells are in the range 10 -31 - 10 -30 cm 6 s -1 . The structures studied by this team feature symmetric quantum wells , which are found in non-polar LEDs . That does not mean , however , that their findings offer no insights into the vast majority of devices made today , which are polar LEDs grown on c-plane sapphire . "" We expect that the Auger rate will be further accelerated in quantum wells grown in the polar direction , "" says Vaxenburg . For their calculations , he and his co-workers use the well-established Pidgeon and Brown model which was proposed in the 1960s . This is often used for calculating the characteristics of direct bandgap semiconductors with a band-edge at the Gamma point of the Brillouin zone . "" It takes into account the eight band-edge sub-bands , "" explains Vaxenburg . "" Adding more bands will only accelerate the rate of Auger recombination , because it will increase the density of final states . "" The code employed for these calculations has been written from scratch . It is a few tens of thousands of lines long , and when it is run on a powerful personal computer , it takes 8-10 hours to calculate the total Auger recombination rate for a given quantum well . Auger rates have been calculated in a wide variety of InGaN / GaN quantum well structures with different confining potentials . One class of structures features a conventional active region , with In 0.25 Ga 0.75 N barriers surrounding a GaN quantum well with a thickness of either 1.5 nm , 2.0 nm , 2.2 nm or 2.5 nm . Other types of structure under study feature ' softer ' potentials , resulting from the insertion of layers with intermediate compositions . The conclusions of the team should not be questioned due to their assumption of zero temperature . "" At temperatures higher than zero , the Auger rate is expected to accelerate even further , "" says Vaxenburg . Calculations reveal that using 11 layers to form a quantum well , rather than the conventional number , 3 , can lead to a three-fold reduction in the Auger recombination rate . This is claimed to spur a 20 percent increase in LED efficiency , shift droop onset to a higher current density , and reduce the droop development rate at higher current densities . The next goal for the team is to extend their model to include piezolelectric polarization ."	Information/Explanation
920	"Now Keawe no sooner beheld her than he drew rein . "" I thought I knew everyone in this country , "" said he . "" How comes it that I do not know you ? "" "" I am Kokua , daughter of Kiano , "" said the girl , "" and I have just returned from Oahu . Who are you ? "" "" I will tell you who I am in a little , "" said Keawe , dismounting from his horse , "" but not now . For I have a thought in my mind , and if you knew who I was , you might have heard of me , and would not give me a true answer . But tell me , first of all , one thing : Are you married ? "" At this Kokua laughed out aloud . "" It is you who ask questions , "" she said . "" Are you married yourself ? "" "" Indeed , Kokua , I am not , "" replied Keawe , "" and never thought to be until this hour . But here is the plain truth . I have met you here at the roadside , and I saw your eyes , which are like the stars , and my heart went to you as swift as a bird . And so now , if you want none of me , say so , and I will go on to my own place ; but if you think me no worse than any other young man , say so , too , and I will turn aside to your father 's for the night , and to-morrow I will talk with the good man . "" Kokua said never a word , but she looked at the sea and laughed . "" Kokua , "" said Keawe , "" if you say nothing , I will take that for the good answer ; so let us be stepping to your father's door . "" She went on ahead of him , still without speech ; only sometimes she glanced back and glanced away again , and she kept the strings of her hat in her mouth . Now , when they had come to the door , Kiano came out on his verandah , and cried out and welcomed Keawe by name . At that the girl looked over , for the fame of the great house had come to her ears ; and , to be sure , it was a great temptation . All that evening they were very merry together ; and the girl was as bold as brass under the eyes of her parents , and made a mock of Keawe , for she had a quick wit . The next day he had a word with Kiano , and found the girl alone . "" Kokua , "" said he , "" you made a mock of me all the evening ; and it is still time to bid me go . I would not tell you who I was , because I have so fine a house , and I feared you would think too much of that house and too little of the man that loves you . Now you know all , and if you wish to have seen the last of me , say so at once . "" "" No , "" said Kokua ; but this time she did not laugh , nor did Keawe ask for more . This was the wooing of Keawe ; things had gone quickly ; but so an arrow goes , and the ball of a rifle swifter still , and yet both may strike the target . Things had gone fast , but they had gone far also , and the thought of Keawe rang in the maiden's head ; she heard his voice in the breach of the surf upon the lava , and for this young man that she had seen but twice she would have left father and mother and her native islands . As for Keawe himself , his horse flew up the path of the mountain under the cliff of tombs , and the sound of the hoofs , and the sound of Keawe singing to himself for pleasure , echoed in the caverns of the dead . He came to the Bright House , and still he was singing . He sat and ate in the broad balcony , and the Chinaman wondered at his master , to hear how he sang between the mouthfuls . The sun went down into the sea , and the night came ; and Keawe walked the balconies by lamplight , high on the mountains , and the voice of his singing startled men on ships . "" Here am I now upon my high place , "" he said to himself . "" Life may be no better ; this is the mountain top ; and all shelves about me toward the worse . For the first time I will light up the chambers , and bathe in my fine bath with the hot water and the cold , and sleep alone in the bed of my bridal chamber . "" So the Chinaman had word , and he must rise from sleep and light the furnaces ; and as he wrought below , beside the boilers , he heard his master singing and rejoicing above him in the lighted chambers . When the water began to be hot the Chinaman cried to his master ; and Keawe went into the bathroom ; and the Chinaman heard him sing as he filled the marble basin ; and heard him sing , and the singing broken , as he undressed ; until of a sudden , the song ceased ."	Prose/Lyrical
113	"Chapter 6 Exchanging Messages 6.1 Messaging Messaging is a central location where you can find all types of messaging accounts , which include text messages ( SMS ) and e-mail accounts . To select a messaging account Do one of the following : • Tap Start > All Programs > Messaging . The Account Picker screen then opens and you can select an account . • While you are in a message list of a certain account , for example SMS / MMS , tap Menu > Go To to switch to other messaging accounts . To configure message account settings • Tap Menu > Options on the Account Picker screen ; or • Tap Menu > Tools > Options while you 're in a message list . Account Picker screen 124 Exchanging Messages To automatically add a signature in outgoing messages You can automatically add your name and other information as your signature in outgoing SMS and e-mail messages : Note You need to specify your signature for each type of messaging account . 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > Messaging , and then tap Menu > Options . 2 . Tap Signatures . 3 . Select the desired account . 4 . Select the Use signature with this account check box . 5 . In the text box , enter your signature . 6 . To add the signature when you reply to or forward messages , select the Use when replying and forwarding check box , and then tap OK . To filter the Inbox message list When the SMS / MMS or e-mail Inbox on your device is full of messages , you can filter your Inbox to display only the messages that contain a particular sender or subject you are searching for . To filter your Inbox 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > Messaging and then tap a messaging account . 2 . Enter the sender name or e-mail subject you want to look for . As you type characters , the message list narrows down to the sequence of characters you have entered . When filtering your e-mail Inbox , for example , entering "" B "" , then "" E "" narrows the list to only the e-mail messages that contain sender names and e-mail subjects that start with "" BE . "" Exchanging Messages 125 6.2 Text Messages Send short text messages ( SMS ) to other mobile phones . If your message is more than 160 characters , it will be sent as two or more separate messages and you will be billed accordingly . Creating and sending a new text message 1 . On the Home screen , slide to the Messages tab . 2 . Touch the New Message icon ( ) on the upper right side of the screen . 3 . To add recipients , enter their mobile phone numbers in the To field , separating the numbers with a semicolon ( ; ) . You can also tap To or tap Menu > Add Recipient to add mobile phone numbers from Contacts . 4 . Enter your message . Tips • To choose from preset messages , tap Menu > My Text and tap a desired message . • To check the spelling , tap Menu > Spell Check . 5 . When finished , tap Send . Note If you want to know when a text message is received , before sending the message that you are composing , tap Menu > Message Options , then select the Request message delivery notification check box . To always receive a delivery notification , tap Menu > Tools > Options in the text message list , tap SMS / MMS , then select the Request delivery notifications check box . Managing text messages from a contact You can easily read , reply or delete text messages that you received from a certain contact by opening his or her contact details and accessing the Messages tab . 1 . On the TouchFLO 3D Home screen , slide to the People tab . 2 . Touch All People , and then touch the name of the desired contact . 3 . The Contact Details screen then appears . Touch the Messages tab ( ) . 126 Exchanging Messages Lists the exchange of text messages between you and the contact . Enter your reply message here and then touch Send . Touch Menu to forward a text message , delete messages , and more . Managing text messages in the Inbox Text messages that are sent to and received from a contact ( or number ) are grouped as a single thread in your Inbox . Threaded SMS shows your messages to and from a contact in a single conversation thread . To open a thread and view the exchange of text messages 1 . In the SMS / MMS Inbox , tap a message thread to open it . Exchanging Messages 127 2 . You can tap links in the messages to directly open contact details , access a web site , send e-mail , or call the displayed number . • Tap the sender name to open the Contact Details screen . • If the sender is not in your contacts , tap the mobile phone number to call the number , reply to the sender , or save it as a new contact . Tap a web address to open the link in Opera Mobile . Enter your reply message here . Tap these navigation keys to select a message in the thread . To reply to a text message At the bottom of the screen , type your reply message and then tap Send . To copy a message in the thread to the SIM card 1 . In the SMS / MMS Inbox , tap a message thread to open it . 2 . Tap the up or down navigation key at the bottom of the on-screen keyboard to select a message in the thread . 3 . Tap Menu > Copy to SIM . Notes • You can not copy a sent message from the thread to the SIM card . • Copying text messages from your device to the SIM card results in duplicate messages in the Inbox when your SIM card is in use . 128 Exchanging Messages To delete a message in the thread 1 . In the SMS / MMS Inbox , tap a message thread to open it . 2 . Tap the up or down navigation key at the bottom of the on-screen keyboard to select a message in the thread . 3 . Tap Menu > Delete . To delete all messages in a thread In the SMS / MMS Inbox , tap and hold a message thread , and then tap Delete . Placing a call to the sender of a text message While reading a text message , you can directly call the sender by pressing the TALK / SEND button . See "" Making a call from a text message "" in Chapter 2 for details . Exchanging Messages 129 6.3 MMS Sending multimedia messages ( MMS ) to your friends and family is fun and easy . You can include pictures , videos , and audio clips in a multimedia message . Notes • Multimedia messaging is a charged service and has to be provisioned on your mobile phone account . Contact your wireless service provider to have MMS provisioned as part of your calling plan . • Make sure the size of MMS messages that you send is within the limits allowed by your wireless service provider . Changing the MMS settings Check your device to see if it is preconfigured with your wireless service provider's MMS settings . Add the MMS settings of your wireless service provider if there are no preset MMS settings found on your device . To configure MMS message settings 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > Messaging > SMS / MMS . 2 . Tap Menu > MMS Options . The Settings screen then appears . 3 . In the Preferences tab , choose from the available options according to your needs . 4 . Tap the Servers tab and check if your device is preset with MMS server settings . If there are no preset settings , tap New and enter the MMS settings which you obtained from your wireless service provider . Note If your device already has preset MMS settings , it is recommended that you do not change these settings . If you change the preset settings , your device may not be able to send and receive MMS messages . 5 . Tap Done . Note If you add several MMS message service providers to the Settings screen , you can choose one as your default provider . Select the provider's name in the list , then tap Set As Default . 130 Exchanging Messages Creating and sending MMS messages You can compose MMS messages in a combination of slides , where each slide can consist of a photo , video or audio clip , and / or text . To compose an MMS message 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > Messaging > SMS / MMS . 2 . Tap Menu > New > MMS . 3 . When the Choose a MMS screen opens , tap a preset template , or tap Custom to open a blank MMS message . Note If you prefer to start composing from a blank MMS message every time , select the Always choose custom check box . 4 . In To , enter the recipient's phone number or e-mail address directly , or tap To , Cc , or Bcc to choose a phone number or an e-mail address from Contacts . Note You may need to scroll up to see the Cc and Bcc fields . 5 . Enter a subject for your message . 6 . Tap the Insert icon ( ) to insert a photo or video clip . When selecting a photo or video clip , you can : • Tap the photo or video clip to insert it into the MMS message . • Tap • Tap • Tap to take a photo and insert it into the MMS message . to record MMS video and insert it into the MMS message . to quit selection and return to the MMS message . 7 . Enter text and insert audio clips by tapping the respective areas . See "" To add text to an MMS message "" and "" To add an audio clip to an MMS message "" for details . 8 . To add more slides , tap or tap Menu > Slides > Insert Slide . Repeat steps 5 and 6 to add photos / videos , text , and audio to your slides . 9 . Tap Send to send the MMS message . Tip You can also send an MMS message from Pictures & Videos , Album , or the Camera program . Exchanging Messages 131 To add text to an MMS message When you tap Insert text here on your MMS message , an empty screen appears where you can enter your text . You can insert the following types of information : Enter your own text Choose from common words or phrases from the My Text list Include a Favorites link Add an emoticon Insert contact information Insert calendar appointment Tip To edit or delete a phrase on the My Text list , tap and hold a string , and then tap Edit or Delete from the shortcut menu . To add a new phrase , tap New . To add an audio clip to an MMS message You can add one audio clip per slide in your MMS message . 1 . Tap Insert audio on your MMS message . By default , the My Documents is shown . Tap My Music or another folder that contains audio files . When navigating folders , tap the down arrow ( ) to return to the upper folder . • Tap to play the audio clip , to pause , or to stop playback . 2 . Select an audio file . When selected , you can : • Tap Select to insert it to the MMS message . 132 Exchanging Messages • Tap Note to quit selection and return to your MMS message . To record a new audio clip and add it to your MMS message , tap . The Record popup window then opens . Tap Record to start recording , and Stop to end the recording . Tap Play to listen to the recorded audio clip , then tap Add . The new audio clip is then inserted to the MMS message . Viewing and replying to MMS messages To view an MMS message 1 . In the SMS / MMS Inbox , tap the MMS message . 2 . In the threaded message , tap the MMS icon ( ) , and then use the playback controls ,, and to view the MMS message . 3 . Tap Contents to see a list of files included in the message . On the Message Contents screen , you can do the following : • To save a file , select it , and tap Menu > Save . • To save the contents of a text file to the My Text list , tap Menu > Save into My Text . • To associate a photo to one of your contacts , tap Menu > Assign to Contact . To reply to an MMS message 1 . In the SMS / MMS Inbox , select the mobile phone number or name of the contact who sent you the MMS message . 2 . In the threaded message , tap the MMS message to open and view an MMS message . 3 . After viewing the MMS message , tap Menu > Reply > via MMS to reply with an MMS message or tap Menu > Reply > via SMS to reply with a text message . Exchanging Messages 133 To block a phone number from sending you MMS messages If you do not want to receive MMS messages from a particular sender , you can add the sender's phone number to the MMS Blacklist . 1 . When you receive a new MMS message , open and view the message . 2 . To avoid receiving multimedia messages from this sender next time , tap Menu > Show > Contact Details . 3 . Tap Menu > Save to Blacklist . 4 . Tap Done . Tip To unblock a phone number and allow the sender to send you MMS messages , remove the number from the Blacklist . Go to the SMS / MMS Inbox , tap Menu > MMS Options > Blacklist tab , tap and hold the phone number in the Blacklist , and then tap Delete . 6.4 E-mail You can set up the following types of e-mail accounts on your device : • Outlook e-mail that you sync with your computer or the Exchange Server . • E-mail account that you have from an Internet Service Provider ( ISP ) or other e-mail provider . • Web-based e-mail accounts such as Yahoo ! ® Mail Plus , AOL ® , and others . • Custom domain e-mail accounts . The e-mail domain name is hosted by a different e-mail provider . For more information , search for "" custom domain e-mail "" in the Help on your device . • Work account that you access using a VPN connection . 134 Exchanging Messages Synchronizing Outlook e-mail with your computer If you have installed the synchronization software on your computer and created a partnership with your device , then your device is ready to send and receive Outlook e-mail . If you have not yet installed the synchronization software nor created a partnership , do so by following the procedures in Chapter 5 . Tip To set up your company e-mail account so that you can access Outlook e-mail messages wirelessly , you must set up your device to synchronize via an over-theair connection with your company's Exchange Server . For more information about synchronizing with your company e-mail server , see Chapter 7 . Setting up an Internet e-mail account Use Windows Mobile's E-mail Setup Wizard to set up a POP3 or IMAP4 e-mail account on your device if you have an e-mail account from an Internet service provider ( ISP ) or other e-mail service provider , or a web-based account such as Yahoo ! Mail Plus or AOL . You can also add a work account that you access using a VPN server connection as a POP3 / IMAP4 account . Note You can also set up an Internet e-mail account from the TouchFLO 3D Mail tab using the simplified Mail Setup . See "" Mail "" in Chapter 3 for details . 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > Messaging > Setup E-mail . 2 . Enter your E-mail address and the Password for your e-mail account and select the Save password option . Tap Next . 3 . If e-mail provider settings are found preconfigured on your device , the E-mail Setup wizard shows a successful message . Tap Next . If the settings are not found on your device , select the Try to get e-mail settings automatically from the Internet checkbox to find and download e-mail server settings from the Internet and then tap Next . Note You may be charged when your device connects to the Internet and downloads the e-mail server settings . Exchanging Messages 135 4 . Enter Your name and the Account display name and then tap Next . Note If the E-mail Setup wizard was unsuccessful in finding and downloading settings from the Internet , select Internet e-mail from the Your e-mail provider list on the next screen . You will be asked to enter e-mail server settings . See "" To specify e-mail server settings "" for details . 5 . In the Automatic Send / Receive list , choose how frequent you want e-mail messages to be automatically sent and downloaded on your device . Note Tap Review all download settings to select download options , set the e-mail format as HTML or plain text , and more . For more information , see "" To customize download and format settings . "" 6 . Tap Finish . To specify e-mail server settings If Auto Setup is unsuccessful , contact your ISP or e-mail provider for the Incoming mail server and Outgoing mail server settings so you can enter them on your device . Other options that you can select include the following : • Select the Outgoing server requires authentication check box , if required by your provider . • If the outgoing e-mail server requires a different user name and password for sending e-mail , clear the Use the same user name and password for sending e-mail check box . You will be prompted to enter this information . • Tap Advanced Server Settings , then select the Require SSL check boxes if your e-mail provider uses an SSL connection for more secured e-mail . From the Network connection list , select the data connection that you use for connecting to the Internet . 136 Exchanging Messages To customize download and format settings Before you tap Finish when setting up your POP3 or IMAP4 e-mail account , you can tap the Review all download settings link at the bottom of the screen to choose download options , message format , and other settings . Options Automatic Send / Receive Download messages Send / receive when I click Send Description Select a time interval for connecting to the Internet automatically to send and receive messages . Set the number of days of messages that you want to be downloaded to your device . By default , messages are immediately delivered when you tap Send . If you prefer to save outgoing messages to the Outbox folder first , clear the check box . ( In this case , you will need to manually send messages by tapping Menu > Send / Receive ) . This allows your device to data roam when there is a set time interval for connecting to the Internet automatically . Since this may result in higher connection costs , you may want to leave the check box cleared . Choose whether to delete messages from the mail server when you delete them on your device . Select HTML or Plain Text . Select the e-mail download size . If you have large volumes of e-mail , use a lower size or select to download headers only . Use automatic send / receive schedule when roaming When deleting messages Message format Message download limit Exchanging Messages 137 Creating and sending an e-mail message 1 . On the TouchFLO 3D Home screen , slide to the Mail tab . 2 . At the right side of the screen , tap an e-mail account you want to use , or slide your finger up or down until you have selected the desired account . 3 . Touch the New E-mail icon ( ) . 4 . To add recipients , enter their e-mail addresses , separating them with a semicolon ( ; ) . You can also tap To if you want to add e-mail addresses stored in Contacts . 5 . Enter a subject and compose your message . After setting up e-mail accounts on your device , you can start sending and receiving e-mail messages . Tips • To choose from preset messages , tap Menu > My Text and tap a desired message . • To check the spelling , tap Menu > Spell Check . 6 . To add an attachment to your message , tap Menu > Insert and tap the item you want to attach : Picture , Voice Note , or File . Select the file or picture you want to attach , or record a voice note . 7 . When finished composing the message , tap Send . Tips • For more information about entering text and symbols , see Chapter 4 . • To set the message priority , tap Menu > Message Options . • If you are working offline , e-mail messages are moved to the Outbox folder and will be sent the next time you connect . 138 Exchanging Messages Viewing and replying to e-mail messages To view an e-mail message 1 . On the TouchFLO 3D Home screen , slide to the Mail tab , select the e-mail account , and then tap Inbox . 2 . Tap an e-mail to open it . To download a complete e-mail By default , long e-mail messages that you receive contains only the first few kilobytes of the message . When you open an e-mail , it displays only the headers and part of the message . You must download the whole e-mail to view the complete content . To download a complete e-mail message , open the e-mail , and then do one of the following : • Finger-scroll to the end of the message , and tap Get entire message and any attachments ( POP3 e-mail account ) or tap Get the rest of this message ( IMAP4 and Outlook e-mail accounts ) . • Tap Menu > Download Message . Notes • The Fetch Mail feature , which is available for POP3 and IMAP4 Internet e-mail accounts , downloads an entire e-mail without the need for you to perform a full synchronization . This limits the download to just the e-mail message that you want and helps save data cost . Fetch Mail is also available for Outlook E-mail . See "" Instant download through Fetch Mail "" in Chapter 7 for details . • Download may take some time , depending on the speed of your Internet connection , size of the whole e-mail , and whether file attachments are automatically downloaded . Exchanging Messages 139 To download file attachments • POP3 e-mail account : File attachments are automatically downloaded when you download a complete e-mail . • IMAP4 and Outlook e-mail accounts : File attachments appear below the subject of an e-mail message . Tapping an attachment opens the attachment if it has been fully downloaded or marks it for download the next time you send and receive e-mail . You can set automatic download of file attachments . See "" Customizing e-mail settings "" in this chapter for details . To reply to or forward a message 1 . On the TouchFLO 3D Home screen , slide to the Mail tab , select the e-mail account , and then tap Inbox . 2 . Open the message and tap Menu > Reply , Menu > Reply All , or Menu > Forward . 3 . Enter your reply message , and then tap Send . Notes • You can receive and view HTML e-mail messages from any type of e-mail account . The HTML format is retained , without layout shifting or resizing . HTML e-mail support in Outlook Mobile is available only if you are synchronizing your device with Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 . • When replying using an Outlook e-mail account , you can customize ActiveSync to exclude addresses , including your own , from being added to the recipient list . Tap Menu > Options in ActiveSync , select the E-mail item , tap Settings , and then tap Advanced . In the My e-mail addresses text box , enter the e-mail addresses that you want to exclude . 140 Exchanging Messages Directly making calls from an e-mail While reading an e-mail , you can directly place a call to the sender , start a conference call , access contact details , and more . • Tap the sender photo or name to open the Contact Details screen . • If the sender is not stored in your contacts , tap the e-mail address to send e-mail or save it as a new contact . • Tap a recipient name to open his or her contact details . • Tap a recipient's e-mail address to send e-mail or save it as a new contact . Tap this Talk button to call the sender . Tap links in the message body to access a web site , send e-mail , or call the displayed number . Tap the To or Cc button or press TALK / SEND to place a call or start a conference call . See Chapter 2 for details . Note If the sender's name or e-mail address is shown on the e-mail message with a Search button ( ) and you have an Exchange Server e-mail account set up on your device , you can tap this button to search for the sender from the Company Directory . For more information about finding contacts in the Company Directory , see Chapter 7 . Exchanging Messages 141 Synchronizing e-mail messages Synchronizing e-mail messages ensures that new e-mail messages are downloaded to the device Inbox folder , e-mail messages in the Outbox folder are sent , and e-mail messages deleted from the server are removed from your device . The manner in which you synchronize e-mail messages depends on the type of e-mail account you have . To automatically synchronize an Outlook e-mail account 1 . Connect your device to your computer through USB or Bluetooth . Otherwise , connect through Wi-Fi , or a data connection if you are synchronizing Outlook e-mail with the Exchange Server . For more information , see Chapter 7 . 2 . Synchronization automatically begins , and your device sends and receives Outlook e-mail . To manually synchronize your Outlook or Internet e-mail account On the TouchFLO 3D Home screen , slide to the Mail tab , select the e-mail account , and then tap Menu > Send / Receive . Customizing e-mail settings To change the download size and format for Outlook e-mail 1 . Disconnect your device from the computer . 2 . Tap Start > ActiveSync . 3 . Tap Menu > Options , select E-mail , then tap Settings . 4 . On the E-mail Sync Options screen : • Under Message format , select HTML or Plain Text . HTML is only available when connected to Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 or later . • Under Download size limit , select the desired e-mail size . 5 . Close ActiveSync and reconnect your device to the computer . 142 Exchanging Messages To change the download size and format for Internet e-mail 1 . Tap Menu > Options on the Account Picker screen , or tap Menu > Tools > Options while you 're in a message list . 2 . Tap your POP3 or IMAP4 Internet e-mail account . 3 . Tap Download Size Settings . 4 . Under Message format , select HTML or Plain Text . 5 . Under Download size limit , select the desired e-mail size . 6 . Tap Done . To automatically receive attachments on Outlook e-mail messages 1 . Tap Start > ActiveSync . 2 . Tap Menu > Options . 3 . Tap E-mail > Settings , and then select Include file attachments . To automatically receive attachments on IMAP4 e-mail messages 1 . Tap Menu > Options on the Account Picker screen , or tap Menu > Tools > Options while you 're in a message list . 2 . Tap the name of your IMAP4 e-mail account . 3 . Tap Download Size Settings . 4 . In Download attachments : • Select All attachments to always download file attachments ; or • sSelect a file size limit for auto-downloading attachments . 5 . Tap Done . To store attachments on the storage card 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > Messaging . 2 . Tap Menu > Options > Storage tab . 3 . Select the When available , use this storage card to store attachments check box ."	Instruction
1610	"• Higher incidence of aches and pains • Hearing loss , especially limited to the one ear most exposed to the snoring • High levels of fatigue and daytime sleepiness • Fibromyalgia • Depression or poorer mental health • Memory impairment One Mayo Clinic study found that the bed partners of people who snore woke at least partially an average of 21 times per hour . This is nearly as often as the 27 times per hour that the "" snorers "" were awakened by their own documented sleep disorders ( such as sleep apnea ) . Both bed partners may be suffering from a sleep-disordered breathing and sleep deprivation although only one may have the real problem . Often those who snore do not take complaints from their bed partner seriously or act in denial , which further exacerbates the problem . A Unique Approach Snoring and sleep apnea are conditions inflicted during sleep . During the night , the normal tongue and jaw positions allow air to pass through the throat effortlessly . The tongue is forward , the jaw is closed and the airway is open . When a person suffers from sleep apnea , his / her airway is blocked periodically through the night depending on the severity of the sleep apnea . The mouth is open , the tongue and soft tissue relaxes and collapses into the throat . This causes the person to snore and possibly have sleep apnea episodes ."	Information/Explanation
419	Here you will find advice on what to consider when choosing a job - restrictions , working hours , work place , rights and responsibilities . Working life Very few occupations are off limits just because you have diabetes . Like anyone else , you can choose a job that fits your personal interests and abilities . There are , however , some points that you should keep in mind when choosing a job .	Instruction
1428	There are some really great safety features as well . The drive mechanism has a tamper proof cover and removable handle so no unauthorized use occurs . The light head is retrofitted with an electrical contactor that de-energizes the fixture as soon as you start to lower the head so there is no electrical hazard . The device is also equipped with a tension sensing fall brake . If the pole is hit by a vehicle or vandalized , the steel brake activates and keeps the fixture from falling . So now not only have you eliminated the need for an expensive bucket truck , but you do n't need an electrician either . Maintenance personnel can now change the bulb at ground level ! Any property owner is going to be concerned with cost . This is one of the best things about retropole . The national average for traditional light pole maintenance is about $ 250 a year per pole . For example , a property that has 10 pole lights would cost about $ 2500 a year to maintain . With retropole you keep that money , add it to the property's bottom line , and you have just added $ 25000 to the value ( income method ) of the property . The upgrade to retropole does n't cost anywhere near that much . At $ 800 per unit with the purchase of 10 units , that would be a cost of $ 8000 . Thats a net gain of $ 17000 in equity and a 2 year return on investment . More Great Benefits retrople can adapt to most types of poles . Whether your pole be square , round or tapered , retrople can work for you . Since retropole is indeed a retrofit application , your existing light heads need not be changed allowing for original design of parking lot to be maintained . Different finish types on poles can be matched and applied to retropole for a seemingly invisible installation .	Promotion
1098	"Great Goddess hypothesis The Great Goddess Hypothesis is that in Palaeolithic , Mesolithic and / or Neolithic Europe and Western Asia and North Africa , a singular , monotheistic female deity was worshipped prior to the development of the polytheistic pagan religions of the Bronze Age and Iron Age . Having first been proposed as an idea relating to ancient Greek religion in 1849 , it subsequently achieved some support amongst classicists . In the early 20th century , various historians began to postulate about the theory applying across Europe , and it was widely propagated by the archaeologist Marija Gimbutas in the 1980s . It has since been adopted by various feminist religious groups such as Dianic Wicca as a part of the mythology of their faith . The theory had been first proposed by the German Classicist Eduard Gerhard in 1849 , when he speculated that the various goddesses found in ancient Greek paganism had been representations of a singular goddess who had been worshipped far further back into prehistory . He associated this deity with the concept of Mother Earth , [ 1 ] which itself had only been developed in the 18th century by members of the Romanticist Movement . [ 2 ] Soon after , this theory began to be adopted by other classicists in France and Germany , such as Ernst Kroker , Fr . Lenormant and M.J. Menant , who further brought in the idea that the ancient peoples of Anatolia and Mesopotamia had influenced the Greek religion , and that therefore they also had once venerated a great goddess . [ 3 ] These ideas amongst various classicists echoed those of the Swiss judge J.J. Bachofen , who put forward the idea that the earliest human societies were matriarchal , but had converted to a patriarchal form in later prehistory . Commenting on this idea , the historian Ronald Hutton ( 1999 ) remarked that in the eyes of many at the time , it would have been an obvious conclusion that "" what was true in a secular sphere should also , logically , have been so in the religious one . "" [ 3 ] In 1901 , the archaeologist Sir Arthur Evans – who in an 1895 work had dismissed the Great Goddess theory [ 4 ] – changed his mind and accepted the idea whilst excavating at Knossos on Crete , the site of the Bronze Age Minoan civilisation . After unearthing a number of female figurines , he came to believe that they all represented a singular goddess , who was the Minoan 's chief deity , and that all the male figurines found on the site represented a subordinate male god who was both her son and consort , an idea that he based partially upon the later classical myth of Rhea and Zeus . [ 5 ] In later writings in ensuing decades he went on to associate these Neolithic and Bronze Age images with other goddesses around the Near East . As Hutton pointed out , "" his influence made this the orthodoxy of Minoan archaeology , although there was always a few colleagues who pointed out that it placed a strain upon the evidence . "" [ 3 ] In 1903 , Sir Edmund Chambers , a respected amateur historian of the mediaeval period , published The Medieval Stage , in which he diverted from his main theme to state how he believed that in prehistory , humans had worshipped a Great Earth Mother as a twofold deity who was both the creator and the destroyer . [ citation needed ] That same year , the classicist Jane Ellen Harrison espoused a similar idea , but claimed that this prehistoric Great Goddess had been divided into three forms – she theorised this based upon the fact that in various recorded polytheistic European religions , there were a set of three goddesses , such as the Fates and the Graces . Harrison identified two of these as the Maiden , who ruled over the living , and the Mother , who ruled the underworld , and like Evans believed that a male god who was both her lover and son was also worshipped . [ citation needed ] ^ Hutton , Ronald ( 1999 ) . The Triumph of the Moon : A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft . New York : Oxford University Press . Page 33 . ^ a b c Hutton , Ronald ( 1999 ) . The Triumph of the Moon : A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft . New York : Oxford University Press . Page 36 . ^ Evans , Arthur ( 1895 ) . Cretan Pictographs and Prae-Phoenician Script . Pages 124 – 131 . ^ Evans , Arthur ( 1901-02 ) . The Palace of Knossos in the Annual of the British School at Athens viii ."	Information/Explanation
1348	"Brains are Sizzling at Summer Camps ! Do your kids play too many video games ? Brighten their summer days with tech days that allow them to construct their own games . Are they leaving their prints everywhere ? At camp they can analyze fingerprints to solve mysteries . Computer Explorers use STEM-based curriculum to offer camps and tech days that animate dull summer days . EXPLORE Computer Explorers is n't about exploring the world of computers , but about exploring the world with the aid of modern day technology . This summer children across the US , Malaysia , China , Kuwait and UK will be investigating "" crime scenes "" at CSI camps and using digital microscopes to decipher clues . Digital microscopes plug into a computer and allow the user to enhance images and capture still photographs . The campers will be applying up-to-date technology to everyday adventures . BUILD Other adventures include "" vicious "" snapping alligators . At a Robotics camp , children will build Lego creations ( alligators , angry birds , and soccer players ) , use sound , light and movement sensors , and program the action with unique drag and drop software . Older children will be able to build their own video games . These camps enable students to build skills in engineering , team building , programming and problem solving . CREATE In addition to the Lego-Robotics camp and CSI camp , franchise owner , Robin Scott of North Carolina will be offering programs on digital photography and online scrapbooking , Claymation and movie production , and treasure hunting with GPS devices . The time and duration of each camp is tailored to the sites ( private schools , childcare centers and community centers ) that bring in Computer Explorers . "" My favorite thing about the camps is watching the kids get excited , involved and completely engaged . I 've never seen a kid sit in the corner or be bored ! "" Scott enthused ."	Promotion
129	"Google will always provide the results that we believe are most relevant to your search . Location is one of a number of factors that we use to provide these relevant results . For example , if you search for a restaurant chain , you may want to find one near you . When searching for movie showtimes , you may want listings in your area . Such search results are made possible by location-based customization . The location used to customize your results is clearly indicated on the left side of your results page . Our location detection technology will automatically set a location for you , or you can easily specify an alternate location . Automatically detected location To provide you with the most relevant results , Google attempts to automatically detect your location and customize results based on that detected location . A location that 's labeled "" Auto-detected "" is chosen based on the following factors : Your IP address . Google Toolbar's My Location feature . If you have Google Toolbar installed and have the My Location feature enabled , your approximate location ( if detected ) will be used to customize your search results . If you do n't want Toolbar to attempt to determine your approximate location , you can turn off My Location See the wrong location ? We 're continuing to improve our location detection technology , and the automatically detected location may be less accurate in certain areas . If you notice an incorrect location , please set your location manually by following the instructions below . If you 're being redirected to a Google domain that does n ' t match the country you 're in ( for example , Google . com . au instead of Google . com ) , please let us know ; we may be incorrectly detecting your IP address . Do n't see a location ? Sometimes we wo n ' t show any location if we ca n ' t accurately determine one for you . We 're working hard to improve our location detection technology . Also , the location setting will not always be available depending on your language and region . We are working to make the location setting more widely available . In the meantime , if you do n't have any location shown , it 's easy to set a location yourself by following the instructions below . Specify your preferred location If you 'd like to change your location , click Change Location and enter a street address , zip code , city and state , or country in the box that appears . Click Set to save your location setting . You can only specify a location within the country of your current Google domain . For instance , it 's not possible to set a U. S. address on www . google . es , the Google domain for Spain . If you 'd like to see results for a region outside of your Google domain , please specify the location in the search query ( like [ bicycle repair paris ] ) or visit a different Google local domain instead . If you do n't already have a location set , enter a location in the box next to "" Search near , "" then click Set . Your manually set location will be saved in a browser cookie on your specific computer and internet browser only . When you use the same computer and browser , this manually set location will be used to customize your search results instead of the automatically detected location . If your location preference does n't remain saved on the browser or computer where you set it , please check your browser settings . To clear your manually set location , click on the auto-detected location . This will clear the location setting saved in your browser cookie , and your results will be customized based on the automatically detected location . Can I turn off location-based customization ? The customization of search results based on location is an important component of a consistent , high-quality search experience . Therefore , we have n ' t provided a way to turn off location customization , although we 've made it easy for you to set your own location or to customize using a general location as broad as the country that matches your local domain . If you find that your results for a particular search are more local than what you 're looking for , you can set your location to a broader geographical area ( such as a country instead of a city , zip code , or street address ) . Please note that this will greatly reduce the amount of locally relevant results that you 'll see . What information about location does Google store ? Google has many services that collect or use location data , including Google Maps , Latitude , Toolbar , and others . If you have questions about our privacy policy , please refer to our privacy center ."	Instruction
1340	"What People Are Saying "" To call or not to call , "" that is the question many parents ponder . When you know you do n't have to call 911 but are not sure if your child's rash , cold , sleep , or eating habits need attention , Dr. Tanya's friendly answers come to the rescue ! This book is a must-have for every parent's diaper bag or nightstand ! Experienced pediatricians are worth their weight in gold ; and Dr. Tanya's book proves that point . The questions she answers are the most frequently asked and her answers are straightforward , knowledgeable and easy to read at the same time . Parents will find comfort knowing her sage advice is close at hand . Mommy Calls is just what the doctor ordered ! In her relaxed , reassuring manner , and laced with gentle humor , Dr. Tanya Remer Altman answers the typical questions that confound and even worry many parents of very young children . This book will bring peace of mind and a sigh of relief as a must have resource for all first time parents . I look forward to keeping it on my shelf for use with clients and maybe with my own grandchildren some day . Mommy Calls is like having a pediatrician available 24 / 7 to answer your questions . Dr. Tanya covers every topic a new parent could possibly need to know about . Her friendly informative style makes reading Mommy Calls a joy . Every parent should have this book close by at all times . Easy-to-read and organized by category , Mommy Calls answers the many questions that you have as a parent , but may think are too trivial to call the pediatrician with . It 's like having a pediatrician with you 24-7 !"	Promotion
1270	"Acupuncture & Facial Rejuvenation call us on 8289 2800 Are you seeking "" Natural Youthful Radiance "" ? Facials can feel divine but sometimes the best treatment for skin that needs nurturing is a facial that works from the inside out ! When you 're stressed like most of us seem to be in this modern age , one of the first places it is likely to show is on your face as tired-looking , lacklustre skin . Even though you may be following your regular skincare routine , when you have the stress hormone cortisol rushing though your system , your skin will tell a story that moisturiser wo n't fix . What 's really needed is a chance for true relaxation in order for your body to regain the equilibrium that a stressful lifestyle throws out of whack . This can be achieved by practising yoga , massage , reflexology or meditation , but taking time out to combine these with Constitutional Facial Acupuncture and naturopathic advice on diet and skin-nourishing supplements , can help restore your inner vitality which in turn will be reflected in your outward appearance . Philosophy The intention that informs these treatments is not that of the obliteration of facial wrinkles in order to produce a tight , immobile ' mask-like ' effect . The practitioner of Constitutional Facial Acupuncture , seeks to honor the dignity of an individual's year 's and accumulated wisdom , by addressing the total person and the constitutional issues , emphasising a proper diet and exercise , and using herbs and tinctures to support the system . Fine needles are placed at a variety of acupuncture points on the face , neck and around the eyes to stimulate the body's natural energies , or Qi . Since muscle groups are addressed as well with stimulation of appropriate acupuncture points , the face lifts itself through the muscles' toning and tightening action . The needles also stimulate blood and circulation , which improves facial color . For more detailled information , please refer to our "" Treatments "" list ."	Promotion
399	Advertising Sales Executive Bradford £ 14k to £ 20k basic + Comm ( £ 35k OTE ) An exciting opportunity exists within this expanding Media organisation to work within a team to build and develop an exciting niche publication . Reporting to the Publication Director , you will be responsible for using your initiative and previous experience in building relationships and generating new business to achieve monetary and yield targets . You will also get involved with editorial and feature content , web based projects and company visits . Proven track record in achieving sales results is essential . You will also have an outgoing personality with the ability to work under your own steam and strive to succeed . This is a great opportunity for someone who is seeking responsibility and career development . If you wish to be considered for this role , click ' apply ' and attach your CV . Clear Resourcing is an employment agency and operates as an equal opportunities employer .	Promotion
159	"We 're 25 , 26 years after the advent of the Macintosh , which was an astoundingly seminal event in the history of human-machine interface , and in computation in general . It fundamentally changed the way that people thought about computation , thought about computers , how they used them and who and how many people were able to use them . It was such a radical change , in fact , that the early Macintosh development team in ' 82 , ' 83 , ' 84 , had to write an entirely new operating system from the ground up . Now , this is an interesting little message , and it 's a lesson that has since , I think , been forgotten or lost or something . And that is , namely , that the OS is the interface . The interface is the OS . It 's like the land and the king ( i . e . Arthur ) they 're inseparable , they are one . And to write a new operating system was not a capricious matter . It was n ' t just a matter of tuning up some graphics routines . There were no graphics routines . There were no mouse drivers . So it was a necessity . But in the quarter century since then , we 've seen all of the fundamental supporting technologies go berserk . So memory capacity and disk capacity have been multiplied by something between 10,000 and a million . Same thing for processor speeds . Networks , we did n't have networks at all at the time of the Macintosh's introduction . And that has become the single most salient aspect of how we live with computers . And , of course , graphics : today $ 84 . 97 at Best Buy buys you more graphics power than you could have gotten for a million bucks from SGI only a decade ago . So we 've got that incredible ramp-up . Then , on the side , we 've got the Web and , increasingly , the cloud , which is fantastic , but also -- in the regard in which an interface is fundamental -- kind of a distraction . So we 've forgotten to invent new interfaces . Certainly we 've seen , in recent years , a lot of change in the regard . And people are starting to wake up about that . So what happens next ? Where do we go from there ? The problem , as we see it , has to do with a single , simple word , "" space "" or a single , simple phrase , "" real world geometry . "" Computers and the programming languages that we talk to them in , that we teach them in , are hideously insensate when it comes to space . They do n't understand real world space . It 's a funny thing because the rest of us occupy it quite frequently and quite well . They also do n't understand time , but that 's a matter for a separate talk . So what happens if you start to explain space to them ? One thing you might get is something like the Luminous Room . The Luminous Room is a system in which it 's considered that input and output spaces are co-located . That 's a strangely simple , and yet unexplored idea , right ? When you use a mouse , your hand is down here on the mouse pad . It 's not even on the same plane as what you 're talking about : the pixels are up on the display . So here was a room in which all the walls , floors , ceilings , pets , potted plants , whatever was in there , were capable , not only , of display , but of sensing as well . And that means input and output are in the same space enabling stuff like this . That 's a digital storage in a physical container . The contract is the same as with real word objects in real world containers . Has to come back out , whatever you put in . This little design experiment that was a small office here knew a few other tricks as well . If you presented it with a chess board , it tried to figure out what you might mean by that . And if there was nothing for them to do , the chess pieces eventually got bored and hopped away . The academics who were overseeing this work thought that was too frivolous , so we then built deadly serious applications like this optics prototyping workbench in which a toothpaste cap on a cardboard box becomes a laser . The beam splitters and lenses are represented by physical objects , and the system projects down the laser beam path . So you 've got an interface that has no interface . You operate the world as you operate the real world , which is to say , with your hands . Similarly , a digital wind tunnel with digital wind flowing from right to left . Not that remarkable in a sense ; we did n't invent the mathematics . But if you displayed that on a CRT or flat panel display , it would be meaningless to hold up an arbitrary object , a real world object on it . Here , the real world merges with the simulation . And finally , to pull out all the stops , this is a system called Urp , for urban planners , in which we give architects and urban planners back the models that we confiscated when we insisted that they use CAD systems . And we make the machine meet them half way . Urp projects down digital shadows , as you see here . And if you introduce tools like this inverse clock , then you can control the sun's position in the sky . That 's 8 : 00 AM shadows . They get a little shorter at 9 : 00 AM . There you are , swinging the sun around . Short shadows at noon and so forth . And we built up a series of tools like this . There are inter-shadowing studies that children can operate , even though they do n't know anything about urban planning , to move a building , you simply reach out your hand and you move the building . A material wand makes the building into a sort of Frank Gehry thing that reflects light in all directions . Are you blinding passers by and motorists on the freeways ? A zoning tool connects distant structures , a building and a roadway . Are you going to get sued by the zoning commission ? and so forth . Now , if these ideas seem familiar or perhaps even a little dated , that 's great ; they should seem familiar . This work is 15 years old . This stuff was undertaken at MIT and the Media Lab under the incredible direction of Prof. Hiroshi Ishii , director of the Tangible Media Group . And it was that work that was seen by Alex McDowell , one of the world's legendary production designers . Alex was preparing a little , sort of obscure , indie , arthouse film called "" Minority Report "" for Steven Spielberg , and invited us to come out from MIT and design the interfaces that would appear in that film . And the great thing about it was that Alex was so dedicated to the idea of verisimilitude , the idea that the putative 2054 that we were painting in the film be believable , that he allowed us to take on that design work as if it were an R & D effort . And the result is sort of gratifyingly perpetual . People still reference those sequences in "" Minority Report "" when they talk about new UI design . So this led full circle , in a strange way , to build these ideas into what we believe is the necessary future of human machine interface : the Spatial Operating Environment , we call it . So here we have a bunch of stuff , some images . And , using a hand , we can actually exercise six degrees of freedom , six degrees of navigational control . And it 's fun to fly through Mr. Beckett's eye . And you can come back out through the scary orangutan . And that 's all well and good . Let's do something a little more difficult . Here , we have a whole bunch of disparate images . We can fly around them . So navigation is a fundamental issue . You have to be able to navigate in 3D . Much of what we want computers to help us with in the first place is inherently spatial . And the part that is n't spatial can often be spatialized to allow our wetware to make greater sense of it . Now we can distribute this stuff in many different ways . So we can throw it out like that . Let 's reset it . We can organize it this way . And , of course , it 's not just about navigation , but about manipulation as well . So if we do n't like something , or we 're intensely curious about Ernst Haeckel's scientific falsifications , we can pull them out like that . And then if it 's time for analysis , we can pull back a little bit and ask for a different distribution . Let 's just come down a bit and fly around . So that 's a different way to look at stuff . If you 're of a more analytical nature then you might want , actually , to look at this as a color histogram . So now we 've got the stuff color-sorted , angle maps onto color . And now , if we want to select things , 3D , space , the idea that we 're tracking hands in real space becomes really important because we can reach in , not in 2D , not in fake 2D , but in actual 3D . Here are some selection planes . And we 'll perform this Boolean operation because we really love yellow and tapirs on green grass . So , from there to the world of real work . Here 's a logistics system , a small piece of one that we 're currently building . There 're a lot of elements . And one thing that 's very important is to combine traditional tabular data with three-dimensional and geospatial information . So here 's a familiar place . And we 'll bring this back here for a second . Maybe select a little bit of that . And bring out this graph . And we should , now , be able to fly in here and have a closer look . These are logistics elements that are scattered across the United States . One thing that three-dimensional interactions and the general idea of imbuing computation with space affords you is a final destruction of that unfortunate one to one pairing between human beings and computers . That 's the old way ; that 's the old mantra , one machine , one human , one mouse , one screen . Well , that does n ' t really cut it anymore . In the real world , we have people who collaborate ; we have people who have to work together . And we have many different displays . And we might want to look at these various images . We might want to ask for some help . The author of this new pointing device is sitting over there , so I can pull it from here to there . These are unrelated machines , right ? So the computation is space soluble and network soluble . So I 'm going to leave that over there because I have a question for Paul . Paul is the designer of the wand , and maybe its easiest for him to come over here and tell me in person what 's going on . So let me get some of these out of the way . Let 's pull this apart : I 'll go ahead and explode it . Kevin , can you help ? Let me see if I can help us find the circuit board . Mind you , it 's a sort of gratuitous field-stripping exercise , but we do it in the lab all the time . All right . So collaborative work , whether it 's immediately co-located or distant and distinct , is always important . And again , that stuff needs to be undertaken in the context of space . And finally , I 'd like to leave you with a glimpse that takes us back to the world of imagery . This is a system called TAMPER , which is a slightly whimsical look at what the future of editing and media manipulation systems might be . We at Oblong believe that media should be accessible in much more fine-grained form . So we have a large number of movies stuck inside here . And let 's just pick out a few elements . We can zip through them as a possibility . We can grab elements off the front , where upon they reanimate , come to life , and drag them down onto the table here . We 'll go over to Jacques Tati here and grab our blue friend and put him down on the table as well . We may need more than one . And we probably need , well , we probably need a cowboy to be quite honest . ( Laughter ) Yeah , let 's take that one . ( Laughter ) You see , cowboys and French farce people do n't go well together , and the system knows that . Let me leave with one final thought , and that is that one of the greatest English language writers of the last three decades suggested that great art is always a gift . And he was n ' t talking about whether the novel costs 24.95 , or whether you have to spring 70 million bucks to buy the stolen Vermeer ; he was talking about the circumstances of its creation and of its existence . And I think that it 's time that we asked for the same from technology . Technology is capable of expressing and being imbued with a certain generosity , and we need to demand that , in fact . For some of this kind of technology , ground center is a combination of design , which is crucially important . We ca n ' t have advances in technology any longer unless design is integrated from the very start . And , as well , of efficacy , agency . We 're , as human beings , the creatures that create , and we should make sure our machines aid us in that task and are built in that same image . So I will leave you with that . Thank you . ( Applause ) Chris Anderson : So to ask the obvious question -- actually this is from Bill Gates -- when ? ( John Underkoffler : When ? ) CA : When real ? When for us , not just in a lab and on a stage ? Can it be for every man , or is this just for corporations and movie producers ? JU : No , it has to be for every human being . That 's our goal entirely . We wo n ' t have succeeded unless we take that next big step . I mean it 's been 25 years . Can there really be only one interface ? There ca n ' t . CA : But does that mean that , at your desk or in your home , you need projectors , cameras ? You know , how can it work ? JU : No , this stuff will be built into the bezel of every display . It 'll be built into architecture . The gloves go away in a matter of months or years . So this is the inevitability about it . CA : So , in your mind , five years time , someone can buy this as part of a standard computer interface ? JU : I think in five years time when you buy a computer , you 'll get this . CA : Well that 's cool . ( Applause ) The world has a habit of surprising us as to how these things are actually used . What do you think , what in your mind is the first killer app for this ? JU : That 's a good question , and we ask ourselves that every day . At the moment , our early-adopter customers -- and these systems are deployed out in the real world -- do all the big data intensive , data heavy problems with it . So , whether it 's logistics and supply chain management or natural gas and resource extraction , financial services , pharmaceuticals , bioinformatics , those are the topics right now , but that 's not a killer app . And I understand what you 're asking . CA : C ' mon , c ' mon . Martial arts , games . C ' mon . ( Laughter ) John , thank you for making science-fiction real . JU : It 's been a great pleasure . Thank you to you all . ( Applause ) </content"	Information/Explanation
992	Youth team striker Joe Healy has been handed a squad number for the first time ahead of tomorrow's Championship clash at home to Derby County . Healy , who has been given the number 33 shirt , was rewarded with the place after scoring his first goal for the reserves against Aldershot last week . The prolific youngster has already scored three goals for the Under-18 side this season to add to his tally from last year .	News
658	you can save up to £ 10 on bouquets of flowers , plus your extra discount from UKfrenzy . To receive your 10 % off voucher enter the voucher code 9947 at the checkout . InterRose - Say it With Roses InterRose is a rose specialist allowing you to choose the exact bouquet you desire . You can choose between one rose up to a massive bouquet of 101 roses .	Promotion
661	Field Service It 's hard enough to design , source materials and skills and then manufacture a product in today's world . Your customers will then judge you not only on its quality and price but also on the after-sales service that they receive . For products that require a post-sale field service operation , Syscom offer business software that controls and manages all aspects of your field service operation including customer satisfaction and profitability . Moreover our field service systems are integrated with our accounting distribution and CRM software modules . They allow you to monitor and improve overhead cost , engineer / technician productivity and look for sales opportunities while providing service . There 's a lot of functionality needed in a Field Service system if it 's going to be useful . Our software has it all and we have practical experience of its application within a total business ERP and CRM system . Customer Relationship Management Setting your company apart from your competitors is one of the toughest issues that face businesses today . With increased competition and customer demand - how do you set yourself apart from the crowd ? Using a Customer Relationship Management tool can help your business increase sales success , deliver superior customer service , and make informed business decisions , putting customers at the centre of your business . We believe that customers are the backbone of every business and our CRM systems give you the tools to make informed , agile decisions and deliver consistent and efficient customer service through an integrated and shared information system .	Promotion
298	"News & Events news Waiting list relief for Scottish patients Waiting times to see a specialist about hearing problems have been slashed in the Lothians after hundreds of thousands of pounds were spent on new testing rooms . Deaf and hard of hearing patients now wait an average of around seven months to see an audiologist and have a hearing aid fitted - down from more than 18 months two years ago . Waiting times are set to fall even further with the appointment of a further six audiologists at the Ear , Nose and Throat ( ENT ) department at Lauriston Place . But the latest figures still fall three weeks short of the Scottish Executive's target of 26 weeks , which came into force in March this year . Nanette Milne , health spokeswoman for the Scottish Tories , said : "" It is very good news for people in Edinburgh and the Lothians that waiting times have already been reduced and that new audiologists have been appointed . "" I am not too concerned about Executive waiting times , as long as the needs of patients are being met and the fact that the wait has been cut by so much is fantastic . "" She added : "" I know waiting lists in audiology have meant people have been waiting a terribly long time to have hearing aids fitted . "" The new permanent staff will replace locums who are currently carrying out the work , saving NHS Lothian £ 180,000 a year . Two have already started work , and the others are set to begin soon . Some of them will later be moved to the audiology department at St John's Hospital , Livingston . In February , the health authority spent £ 470,000 installing four new sound-proofed rooms to measure hearing ability at Lauriston Place . An extra 240 people a week are seen by audiologists since the booths were installed - a 60 per cent rise since February . But patients are still having to wait an average of 29 weeks from being referred by their GP to having a hearing aid fitted . Mark Hamilton , manager of the ENT department at Lauriston Place , said : "" These additions to the audiology department are great news for patients . We have just revised our waiting list timetables which means people will now be getting access to treatment sooner . "" Over the next few months we are also expecting a big increase in the number of patients attending our department . "" Hearing problems are a major disadvantage to a lot of people and our patients can rest assured that NHS Lothian is always striving to deliver high quality health services . "" A Scottish Executive spokeswoman said : "" We are committed to a programme of modernisation of audiology services in Scotland , and to making available digital hearing aids where there is a clinical need . All boards can now fit digital hearing aids if appropriate . "" A target of 26 weeks' waiting time from referral to fitting is being achieved by some , but not all , boards as the starting point for modernisation varied from board to board . "" Around £ 17 million has been made available to NHS boards over 2003-07 to modernise audiology services . I had just had enough so I decided to go privately Long waiting lists have forced some patients to have hearing aids fitted privately . Frank Cochrane , 73 , of Trinity , waited to see an NHS Lothian audiologist for nearly two years after being referred by his GP . He said : "" My hearing started to go very gradually more than three years ago . When I first went to see my GP , it had gone only a little bit , but by the time I got to the Ear , Nose and Throat , it was really quite bad . "" I have had terrible problems waiting to see someone at the NHS . Once I eventually did see someone at the hospital , they told me I would face another wait to have a hearing aid fitted . I had just had enough , so I decided to go privately . "" Mr Cochrane , who had one foot amputated earlier this year , contacted a private firm who came to his home to carry out tests and fit two hearing aids . He added : "" When I was in hospital having my foot amputated , I dropped my hearing aid and broke it . I decided to see if there was any way I could get it repaired on the NHS , but I was told I would have to join the bottom of the list again . "" Source : The Scotsman Link : http://www.scotsman.com / | top | legal | privacy | accessibility | disclaimer | © copyright Hearing Concern 2006 | | Registered charity no . 1094497 | A company limited by guarantee registered in England no . 4466960 | | W3C : AAA Compliant | W3C : Valid HTML | W3C : Valid CSS |"	News
1491	Remote control Quickly adjust airflow power and oscillation . The remote control unit is curved and magnetised to store neatly on top of the loop amplifier . Safe There are no fast-spinning blades on a Dyson Air MultiplierTM fan . It 's safe to use , and does n't need a safety grille for protection . Easy to clean Ordinary fans have safety grilles to guard their fast-spinning blades . They collect dust and are fiddly to take apart and reassemble when you want to clean them . Dyson fans do n't have blades or grilles . Simply wipe clean with a cloth . 64dBA Is this product brand new ? Why is warranty only 1 year ? Theses items are brand new and Dyson fans come with a 2 year warranty . what are the running costs ? This unit uses 65 watts of electicity so the cost would be pence . For a better idea of cost you would have to contact you provider . Is it quiet to run ? Could it be run overnight during summet to cool bedroom without disturbing sleep ?	Promotion
1231	"Corus wants lockout kept on U.S. channels GRANT ROBERTSON Globe and Mail July 10 , 2007 Canadian cable channels should be allowed to invade each other 's programming turf but signals from popular U.S. competitors such as HBO and ESPN must be kept out of the country , the head of Corus Entertainment Inc. says . Corus chief executive officer John Cassaday plans to argue against lifting restrictions on U.S. cable channels when regulatory hearings are held on rules governing specialty channels in January . However , Corus will support an easing of rules that protect Canadian cable channels by preventing formats from being duplicated . Those rules date back to the 1980s , when specialty cable was getting off the ground , but several channels are now making millions of dollars yearly . But regulators should not allow U.S. channels to move in unfettered , since they are n't required to spend on Canadian content . "" Canadian competition is fine , and will improve the system . If we ca n't defend our position on W or CMT or YTV from Canadian competition , shame on us , "" Mr. Cassaday said during a conference call Tuesday after the company reported third-quarter financial results . "" What we 're simply opposed to is operators that can come into Canada without the same Canadian-content obligations , and effectively dump American product into our marketplace without the commensurate responsibilities . "" The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission ( CRTC ) will consider the matter at the hearings in Gatineau , Que . , on Jan. 28 , 2008 . The broadcast regulator will assess whether the rules limiting the industry to one channel for each type of format needs to be updated , "" given that the pay and specialty industry is now a mature , healthy industry characterized by a diversity of popular , recognized brands . "" The CRTC will also consider whether restrictions on U.S. cable networks that compete directly with Canadian channels should be lifted . Nuances in TV licences prevent channels from encroaching on other formats . MuchMusic , for example , is not allowed to show live sporting events – such as snowboarding – because that would compete with sports networks . In turn , sports channels ca n't show sports-related films , which would threaten movie networks . And MTV in Canada must air predominantly talk and lifestyle-related programs , rather than music videos , to prevent direct competition with MuchMusic . ( Both MuchMusic and MTV in Canada are owned by CTVglobemedia , parent company of The Globe and Mail . ) Easing rules on foreign cable channels would have other implications for Corus , since its profitable pay TV business in Western Canada , Movie Central , buys shows from HBO and other U.S. pay networks . First-run episodes of programs such as The Sopranos have been a key to drawing subscribers ."	News
285	"DONATIONS WELCOME This website is run with money from my own pocket , and to keep me from relying on adverts and promotions please feel free to give a monetary donation if this website has been useful to you . Please click on the button below to make your donation . STRAWBALE BUILDING FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Most people have grown up through childhood and beyond into adulthood with the tale of the Three Little Pigs , so when first faced with the notion of building with straw the immediate reaction is to say , "" surely you cant build a house out of straw , we all know what happened to the little pigs straw house "" and then they usually huff and puff a little . I usually say , "" that 's what you get if you let a pig build your house "" HOW ABOUT FIRE ? loose straw does burn , but when compressed tightly and tied into a bale it is almost impossible to burn , just as loose paper will burn , but try setting fire to a telephone directory , and when straw bales are covered in render their performance is even better ! Straw bales have been fire tested beyond any doubt and have even satisfied the Australian Bushire Tests , QUOTE "" Brian Menadue from SA Country Fire Service stated that it was important for the strawbale industry to test this new material and he was satisfied that rendered strawbale would be an acceptable wall material . The testing has proved that used in wall construction , rendered strawbales are suitable for use in bushfire-prone areas . They are non-combustible to the stringent tests that were carried out by the CSIRO . Rendered strawbale walls now stand together with mudbrick and rammed earth as alternative building materials "" Check out the full story by following the link . Bushfire tests WHAT ABOUT MOISTURE ? moisture is the only real enemy of straw bales , if your bales get wet and have a moisture content above 20 % then they will rot . BUT with careful attention there is no need for your bales to get wet , a few simple rules can prevent this . Build your foundation a minimum of 6-8 inches above ground level and make sure that you have good damproofing and give the roof a generous ( 2ft ) overhang . This is the equivalent of a good hat and boots , along with regularly limewashing the exterior render , should prevent moisture from entering your bales . WHAT ABOUT RATS AND MICE ? Rats and mice usually like to run around in the cavities between walls , with strawbale walls there are no cavities for them to lurk in , also the walls are usually lime rendered which rats and mice can not chew through as the lime will soon dry their mouths out . I have never come across an owner of a strawbale house that has a problem with rats and mice . ARE STRAWBALE BUILDINGS STRUCTURALLY SAFE ? Strawbale buildings are as safe if not safer than any conventional building , they have been thoroughly tested for load bearing and are capable of structural loading far in excess of any accepted requirements , it has even been noted that when loaded to failure point that they fail in an unspectacular fashion when compared to conventional building materials . ARE STRAWBALE BUILDINGS CHEAP TO BUILD ? The cost of building a 3-4 bedroom strawbale house will not really be any cheaper than a conventional build , there is possibly a slight saving on the cost of the walls but everything else , foundation , roof , doors , windows , services etc is the same , BUT for the same costs as a conventional build you end up with a superinsulated house . Many people who build with strawbales manage to lower their building costs by becoming dedicated recyclers and scroungers and by using friends and family for labour , in this way it is possible to build fairly cheaply . DO I NEED PLANNING PERMISSION FOR A STRAWBALE BUILDING ? In most cases the answer is yes you do need planning permission , however some buildings ( in back gardens etc ) fall under the Generally Permitted Development Order and if they are built within certain guidelines require no planning permission . Planning authorities are only interested in whether a building is allowed in the actual area , and the size and shape and actual location , they are not concerned with the materials you use to build with , this is a matter for the Building Control Officer . Check out the full story by following the link . Planning Index HOW LONG WILL A STRAWBALE BUILDING LAST ? Here in the UK we have only been building with straw bales since the mid 1990's , so have no real precedent for longevity , however there are SB buildings in the USA that are almost a hundred years old SB historic buildings and at least one in France Historic SB building France that dates back to 1921 . Like all buildings if it is regularly maintained a SB building should last indefinately ."	Instruction
648	"I lay there on the beach , The sun was shining And there was a cool breeze . I turned to look at my family , They were there once , then gone the next . I could see a wave coming towards me , I ran to my family but I was too late . A man behind me Told me to run , But I could n't I was stunned at what I saw . The man lifted me up , And carried me towards a hotel . I ran to the top floor . I looked out of the balcony . I could see people screaming . Mothers running to their children . Babies were crying , Children were running . I stayed where I was , Too scared to move . People in the hotel Were running outside . "" Why ? "" I asked . I soon knew . The hotel was going to collapse ."	Opinion/Argumentation
1657	According to the United States Census Bureau , the CDP has a total area of 3.3 square miles ( 8 . 7 km2 ) , all land . As of the census of 2000 , there were 484 people , 144 households , and 123 families residing in the CDP . The population density was 145.0 people per square mile ( 56 . 0 / km2 ) . There were 170 housing units at an average density of 50.9 / sq mi ( 19 . 7 / km2 ) . The racial makeup of the CDP was 72.31 % White , 4.96 % African American , 0.41 % Native American , 0.21 % Pacific Islander , 19.01 % from other races , and 3.10 % from two or more races . Hispanic or Latino of any race were 61.78 % of the population . There were 144 households out of which 44.4 % had children under the age of 18 living with them , 64.6 % were married couples living together , 15.3 % had a female householder with no husband present , and 13.9 % were non-families . 11.8 % of all households were made up of individuals and 4.2 % had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older . The average household size was 3.36 and the average family size was 3.65 . In the CDP , the population was spread out with 33.9 % under the age of 18 , 12.0 % from 18 to 24 , 26.7 % from 25 to 44 , 21.1 % from 45 to 64 , and 6.4 % who were 65 years of age or older . The median age was 30 years . For every 100 females there were 102.5 males . For every 100 females age 18 and over , there were 102.5 males . The median income for a household in the CDP was $ 48 , 500 , and the median income for a family was $ 34 , 583 . Males had a median income of $ 46 , 000 versus $ 21 , 354 for females . The per capita income for the CDP was $ 13 , 443 . About 6.7 % of families and 19.1 % of the population were below the poverty line , including 35.2 % of those under age 18 and 14.3 % of those age 65 or over .	Information/Explanation
887	Age Concern Exeter Lottery Club A fun way in which you can support our work is to join our Lottery Club . For a minimum stake of £ 1 per month for 6 months , your number will be entered in our regular draw with prizes of £ 50 , £ 30 and £ 20 each month . Why not ask us for an application leaflet ? With Age Concern Exeter lottery we all win !	Promotion
813	Hormonal Treatments / Hormone Therapy Hormones are chemicals in our bodies that send messages to cells to tell them what to do and how to work . Some cancers use hormones to help them grow . Therefore it can sound strange that we can use hormones to treat cancer as well . The clever thing is that if a person has a cancer that feeds on one type of hormone , then we can give them another type of hormone that works the opposite way . The effect is that the cancer tumour will either stop growing , or grow more slowly .	Information/Explanation
267	"To send a message to someone , you will need to know their exact E-mail address . It is typically the person's "" UserID @ their_provider ' s_name "" . E-mail addresses generally do not contain the following - commas , parentheses , or spaces . If you do not know someone's e-mail address , your best bet would be to simply ask them , or you can try to find them in an Internet Directory such as WhoWhere . c om How do I attach files to E-Mail messages ? You can attach just about any file to an e-mail message and send it anybody on the Internet . The person receiving the file will need the appropriate application to open the file when they get it . For example , the recipient will not be able to view a PowerPoint file if they do not have Power Point Viewer on their system . To attach a file with Outlook Express , click the paperclip icon in the new message window . Enter the location or browse for the file on your system . The attached file will be displayed along with your new message . What is a signature file ? Signature files are text files that are automatically added to the end of e-mail messages . To create one , simply use any text editor such as Notepad . A signature file can be your name , your title , or a hyperlink to your web page . Save the file as a . t xt file . In the Outlook Express window , click on Tools at the top and go to Stationary . Click on the Signature button . You can either enter the text in the window or point to the text file on your system ."	Instruction
1063	12 . APPOINTMENT OF CONSULTANTS Every contract of appointment will require the consultant or adviser appointed : - 12.1 . where appropriate , to comply with the requirements of all these Contract Procedures in carrying out the services required by the Council under the appointment , as if he were a Director of the Council . 12.2 . to produce to the Director , on request during the contract , all records maintained by him in relation to his contract of appointment . 12.3 . on completion of the appointment to transmit all such records to the Director , if required . 12.4 . where a partnership or company is appointed , to agree to a condition whereby the appointment may be terminated at the discretion of the Council , if the particular individual whose personal skill is of primary importance to the Council ceases to be a partner in , or employed by , that partnership or company .	Legal
1608	CVC Capital Partners , the UK private equity firm , which is currently in the process of making an offer to purchase Forbo , the Swiss flooring and drive belts manufacturer , would consider selling Forbo's Swift adhesives division , if it is successful in its bid , a source close to the situation s [ more ]	News
485	Free lifetime care for printers TallyGenicom has launched its Care for Life initiative , offering firms free onsite service for all its colour and mono laser printers . The service includes free online technical support as well as onsite service , next day business response priority call , printer up-and-running within 48 hours , discounted consumables and printer audit for the whole organisation . ' We want to offer our customers a solution and not just a printer ' , said TallyGenicom's MD , Robin Edwardes . ' By providing free onsite service we can help our customers better manage their ongoing printer costs , whilst ensuring a fast and environmentally friendly service . ' The Care for Life service is available only to customers who continue to purchase goods from the company's website and who purchase their printers from a Care for Life partner .	Promotion
214	"Preparatory Commission for the International Criminal Court Working Group on an Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court New York , 24 September-5 October 2001 Report of the Working Group Draft Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court The States Parties to the present Agreement , Whereas the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court adopted on 17 July 1998 by the United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries established the International Criminal Court with the power to exercise its jurisdiction over persons for the most serious crimes of international concern ; Whereas article 4 of the Rome Statute provides that the International Criminal Court shall have international legal personality and such legal capacity as may be necessary for the exercise of its functions and the fulfilment of its purposes ; Whereas article 48 of the Rome Statute provides that the International Criminal Court shall enjoy in the territory of each State Party to the Rome Statute such privileges and immunities as are necessary for the fulfilment of its purposes ; Have agreed as follows : Article 1 Use of terms For the purposes of the present Agreement : ( a ) "" The Statute "" means the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court adopted on 17 July 1998 by the United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court ; ( b ) "" The Court "" means the International Criminal Court established by the Statute ; ( c ) "" States Parties "" means States Parties to the present Agreement ; ( d ) "" Representatives of States Parties "" means all delegates , deputy delegates , advisers , technical experts and secretaries of delegations ; ( e ) "" Assembly "" means the Assembly of States Parties to the Statute ; ( f ) "" Judges "" means the judges of the Court ; ( g ) "" The Presidency "" means the organ composed of the President and the First and Second Vice-Presidents of the Court ; ( h ) "" Prosecutor "" means the Prosecutor elected by the Assembly in accordance with article 42 , paragraph 4 , of the Statute ; ( i ) "" Deputy Prosecutors "" means the Deputy Prosecutors elected by the Assembly in accordance with article 42 , paragraph 4 , of the Statute ; ( j ) "" Registrar "" means the Registrar elected by the Court in accordance with article 43 , paragraph 4 , of the Statute ; ( k ) "" Deputy Registrar "" means the Deputy Registrar elected by the Court in accordance with article 43 , paragraph 4 , of the Statute ; ( l ) "" Counsel "" means defence counsel and the legal representatives of victims ; ( m ) "" Secretary-General "" means the Secretary-General of the United Nations ; ( n ) "" Representatives of intergovernmental organizations "" means the executive heads of intergovernmental organizations , including any official acting on his or her behalf ; ( o ) "" Vienna Convention "" means the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 18 April 1961 ; ( p ) "" Rules of Procedure and Evidence "" means the Rules of Procedure and Evidence adopted in accordance with article 51 of the Statute . Article 2 Legal status and juridical personality of the Court The Court shall have international legal personality and shall also have such legal capacity as may be necessary for the exercise of its functions and the fulfilment of its purposes . It shall , in particular , have the capacity to contract , to acquire and to dispose of immovable and movable property and to participate in legal proceedings . Article 3 General provisions on privileges and immunities of the Court The Court shall enjoy in the territory of each State Party such privileges and immunities as are necessary for the fulfilment of its purposes . Article 4 Inviolability of the premises of the Court The premises of the Court shall be inviolable . Article 5 Flag , emblem and markings The Court shall be entitled to display its flag , emblem and markings at its premises and on vehicles and other means of transportation used for official purposes . Article 6 Immunity of the Court , its property , funds and assets The Court , and its property , funds and assets , wherever located and by whomsoever held , shall be immune from every form of legal process , except insofar as in any particular case the Court has expressly waived its immunity . It is , however , understood that no waiver of immunity shall extend to any measure of execution . The property , funds and assets of the Court , wherever located and by whomsoever held , shall be immune from search , seizure , requisition , confiscation , expropriation and any other form of interference , whether by executive , administrative , judicial or legislative action . To the extent necessary to carry out the functions of the Court , the property , funds and assets of the Court , wherever located and by whomsoever held , shall be exempt from restrictions , regulations , controls or moratoria of any nature . Article 7 Inviolability of archives and documents The archives of the Court , and all papers and documents in whatever form , and materials being sent to or from the Court , held by the Court or belonging to it , wherever located and by whomsoever held , shall be inviolable . The termination or absence of such inviolability shall not affect protective measures that the Court may order pursuant to the Statute and the Rules of Procedure and Evidence with regard to documents and materials made available to or used by the Court . Article 8 Exemption from taxes , customs duties and import or export restrictions The Court , its assets , income and other property and its operations and transactions shall be exempt from all direct taxes , which include , inter alia , income tax , capital tax and corporation tax , as well as direct taxes levied by local and provincial authorities . It is understood , however , that the Court shall not claim exemption from taxes which are , in fact , no more than charges for public utility services provided at a fixed rate according to the amount of services rendered and which can be specifically identified , described and itemized . The Court shall be exempt from all customs duties , import turnover taxes and prohibitions and restrictions on imports and exports in respect of articles imported or exported by the Court for its official use and in respect of its publications . Goods imported or purchased under such an exemption shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of in the territory of a State Party , except under conditions agreed with the competent authorities of that State Party . Article 9 Reimbursement of duties and / or taxes The Court shall not , as a general rule , claim exemption from duties and / or taxes which are included in the price of movable and immovable property and taxes paid for services rendered . Nevertheless , when the Court for its official use makes major purchases of property and goods or services on which identifiable duties and / or taxes are charged or are chargeable , States Parties shall make appropriate administrative arrangements for the exemption of such charges or reimbursement of the amount of duty and / or tax paid . Goods purchased under such an exemption or reimbursement shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of , except in accordance with the conditions laid down by the State Party which granted the exemption or reimbursement . No exemption or reimbursement shall be accorded in respect of charges for public utility services provided to the Court . Article 10 Funds and freedom from currency restrictions Without being restricted by financial controls , regulations or financial moratoriums of any kind , while carrying out its activities : ( a ) The Court may hold funds , currency of any kind or gold and operate accounts in any currency ; ( b ) The Court shall be free to transfer its funds , gold or its currency from one country to another or within any country and to convert any currency held by it into any other currency ; ( c ) The Court may receive , hold , negotiate , transfer , convert or otherwise deal with bonds and other financial securities ; ( d ) The Court shall enjoy treatment not less favourable than that accorded by the State Party concerned to any intergovernmental organization or diplomatic mission in respect of rates of exchange for its financial transactions . In exercising its rights under paragraph 1 , the Court shall pay due regard to any representations made by any State Party insofar as it is considered that effect can be given to such representations without detriment to the interests of the Court . Article 11 Facilities in respect of communications The Court shall enjoy in the territory of each State Party for the purposes of its official communications and correspondence treatment not less favourable than that accorded by the State Party concerned to any intergovernmental organization or diplomatic mission in the matter of priorities , rates and taxes applicable to mail and the various forms of communication and correspondence . No censorship shall be applied to the official communications or correspondence of the Court . The Court may use all appropriate means of communication , including electronic means of communication , and shall have the right to use codes or cipher for its official communications and correspondence . The official communications and correspondence of the Court shall be inviolable . The Court shall have the right to dispatch and receive correspondence and other materials or communications by courier or in sealed bags , which shall have the same privileges , immunities and facilities as diplomatic couriers and bags . The Court shall have the right to operate radio and other telecommunication equipment on any frequencies allocated to it by the States Parties in accordance with their national procedures . The States Parties shall endeavour to allocate to the Court , to the extent possible , frequencies for which it has applied . Article 12 Exercise of the functions of the Court outside its headquarters In the event that the Court , pursuant to article 3 , paragraph 3 , of the Statute , considers it desirable to sit elsewhere than at its headquarters at The Hague in the Netherlands , the Court may conclude with the State concerned an arrangement concerning the provision of the appropriate facilities for the exercise of its functions . Article 13 Representatives of States participating in the Assembly and its subsidiary organs and representatives of intergovernmental organizations Representatives of States Parties to the Statute attending meetings of the Assembly and its subsidiary organs , representatives of other States that may be attending meetings of the Assembly and its subsidiary organs as observers in accordance with article 112 , paragraph 1 , of the Statute , and representatives of States and of intergovernmental organizations invited to meetings of the Assembly and its subsidiary organs shall , while exercising their official functions and during their journey to and from the place of meeting , enjoy the following privileges and immunities : ( a ) Immunity from personal arrest or detention ; ( b ) Immunity from legal process of every kind in respect of words spoken or written , and all acts performed by them in their official capacity ; such immunity shall continue to be accorded notwithstanding that the persons concerned may have ceased to exercise their functions as representatives ; ( c ) Inviolability of all papers and documents in whatever form ; ( d ) The right to use codes or cipher , to receive papers and documents or correspondence by courier or in sealed bags and to receive and send electronic communications ; ( e ) Exemption from immigration restrictions , alien registration requirements and national service obligations in the State Party they are visiting or through which they are passing in the exercise of their functions ; ( f ) The same privileges in respect of currency and exchange facilities as are accorded to representatives of foreign Governments on temporary official missions ; ( g ) The same immunities and facilities in respect of their personal baggage as are accorded to diplomatic envoys under the Vienna Convention ; ( h ) The same protection and repatriation facilities as are accorded to diplomatic agents in time of international crisis under the Vienna Convention ; ( i ) Such other privileges , immunities and facilities not inconsistent with the foregoing as diplomatic agents enjoy , except that they shall have no right to claim exemption from customs duties on goods imported ( otherwise as part of their personal baggage ) or from excise duties or sales taxes . Where the incidence of any form of taxation depends upon residence , periods during which the representatives described in paragraph 1 attending the meetings of the Assembly and its subsidiary organs are present in a State Party for the discharge of their duties shall not be considered as periods of residence . The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article are not applicable as between a representative and the authorities of the State Party of which he or she is a national or of the State Party or intergovernmental organization of which he or she is or has been a representative . Article 14 Representatives of States participating in the proceedings of the Court Representatives of States participating in the proceedings of the Court shall , while exercising their official functions , and during their journey to and from the place of the proceedings , enjoy the privileges and immunities referred to in article 13 . Article 15 Judges , Prosecutor , Deputy Prosecutors and Registrar The judges , the Prosecutor , the Deputy Prosecutors and the Registrar shall , when engaged on or with respect to the business of the Court , enjoy the same privileges and immunities as are accorded to heads of diplomatic missions and shall , after the expiry of their terms of office , continue to be accorded immunity from legal process of every kind in respect of words which had been spoken or written and acts which had been performed by them in their official capacity . The judges , the Prosecutor , the Deputy Prosecutors and the Registrar and members of their families forming part of their households shall be accorded every facility for leaving the country where they may happen to be and for entering and leaving the country where the Court is sitting . On journeys in connection with the exercise of their functions , the judges , the Prosecutor , the Deputy Prosecutors and the Registrar shall in all States Parties through which they may have to pass enjoy all the privileges , immunities and facilities granted by States Parties to diplomatic agents in similar circumstances under the Vienna Convention . If a judge , the Prosecutor , a Deputy Prosecutor or the Registrar , for the purpose of holding himself or herself at the disposal of the Court , resides in any State Party other than that of which he or she is a national or permanent resident , he or she shall , together with family members forming part of his or her household , be accorded diplomatic privileges , immunities and facilities during the period of residence . The judges , the Prosecutor , the Deputy Prosecutors and the Registrar and members of their families forming part of their households shall be accorded the same repatriation facilities in time of international crisis as are accorded to diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention . Paragraphs 1 to 4 of this article shall apply to judges of the Court even after their term of office has expired if they continue to exercise their functions in accordance with article 36 , paragraph 10 , of the Statute . The salaries , emoluments and allowances paid to the judges , the Prosecutor , the Deputy Prosecutors and the Registrar by the Court shall be exempt from taxation . Where the incidence of any form of taxation depends upon residence , periods during which the judges , the Prosecutor , the Deputy Prosecutors and the Registrar are present in a State Party for the discharge of their functions shall not be considered as periods of residence for purposes of taxation . States Parties may take these salaries , emoluments and allowances into account for the purpose of assessing the amount of taxes to be applied to income from other sources . States Parties shall not be obliged to exempt from income tax pensions or annuities paid to former judges , Prosecutors and Registrars and their dependants . Article 16 Deputy Registrar , staff of the Office of the Prosecutor and staff of the Registry The Deputy Registrar , the staff of the Office of the Prosecutor and the staff of the Registry shall enjoy such privileges , immunities and facilities as are necessary for the independent performance of their functions . They shall be accorded : ( a ) Immunity from personal arrest or detention and from seizure of their personal baggage ; ( b ) Immunity from legal process of every kind in respect of words spoken or written and all acts performed by them in their official capacity , which immunity shall continue to be accorded even after termination of their employment with the Court ; ( c ) Inviolability for all official papers and documents in whatever form and materials ; ( d ) Exemption from taxation on the salaries , emoluments and allowances paid to them by the Court . States Parties may take these salaries , emoluments and allowances into account for the purpose of assessing the amount of taxes to be applied to income from other sources ; ( e ) Exemption from national service obligations ; ( f ) Together with members of their families forming part of their household , exemption from immigration restrictions or alien registration ; ( g ) Exemption from inspection of personal baggage , unless there are serious grounds for believing that the baggage contains articles the import or export of which is prohibited by the law or controlled by the quarantine regulations of the State Party concerned ; an inspection in such a case shall be conducted in the presence of the official concerned ; ( h ) The same privileges in respect of currency and exchange facilities as are accorded to the officials of comparable rank of diplomatic missions established in the State Party concerned ; ( i ) Together with members of their families forming part of their household , the same repatriation facilities in time of international crisis as are accorded to diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention ; ( j ) The right to import free of duties and taxes , except payments for services , their furniture and effects at the time of first taking up post in the State Party in question and to re-export their furniture and effects free of duties and taxes to their country of permanent residence . States Parties shall not be obliged to exempt from income tax pensions or annuities paid to former Deputy Registrars , members of the staff of the Office of the Prosecutor , members of the staff of the Registry and their dependants . Article 17 Personnel recruited locally and not otherwise covered by the present Agreement Personnel recruited by the Court locally and not otherwise covered by the present Agreement shall be accorded immunity from legal process in respect of words spoken or written and all acts performed by them in their official capacity for the Court . Such immunity shall continue to be accorded after termination of employment with the Court for activities carried out on behalf of the Court . During their employment , they shall also be accorded such other facilities as may be necessary for the independent exercise of their functions for the Court . Article 18 Counsel and persons assisting defence counsel Counsel shall enjoy the following privileges , immunities and facilities to the extent necessary for the independent performance of his or her functions , including the time spent on journeys , in connection with the performance of his or her functions and subject to production of the certificate referred to in paragraph 2 of this article : ( a ) Immunity from personal arrest or detention and from seizure of his or her personal baggage ; ( b ) Immunity from legal process of every kind in respect of words spoken or written and all acts performed by him or her in their official capacity , which immunity shall continue to be accorded even after he or she has ceased to exercise his or her functions ; ( c ) Inviolability of papers and documents in whatever form and materials relating to the exercise of his or her functions ; ( d ) For the purposes of communications in pursuance of his or her functions as counsel , the right to receive and send papers and documents in whatever form ; ( e ) Exemption from immigration restrictions or alien registration ; ( f ) Exemption from inspection of personal baggage , unless there are serious grounds for believing that the baggage contains articles the import or export of which is prohibited by law or controlled by the quarantine regulations of the State Party concerned ; an inspection in such a case shall be conducted in the presence of the counsel concerned ; ( g ) The same privileges in respect of currency and exchange facilities as are accorded to representatives of foreign Governments on temporary official missions ; ( h ) The same repatriation facilities in time of international crisis as are accorded to diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention . Upon appointment of counsel in accordance with the Statute , the Rules of Procedure and Evidence and the Regulations of the Court , counsel shall be provided with a certificate under the signature of the Registrar for the period required for the exercise of his or her functions . Such certificate shall be withdrawn if the power or mandate is terminated before the expiry of the certificate . Where the incidence of any form of taxation depends upon residence , periods during which counsel is present in a State Party for the discharge of his or her functions shall not be considered as periods of residence . The provisions of this article shall apply mutatis mutandis to persons assisting defence counsel in accordance with rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence . Article 19 Witnesses Witnesses shall enjoy the following privileges , immunities and facilities to the extent necessary for their appearance before the Court for purposes of giving evidence , including the time spent on journeys in connection with their appearance before the Court , subject to the production of the document referred to in paragraph 2 of this article : ( a ) Immunity from personal arrest or detention ; ( b ) Without prejudice to subparagraph ( d ) below , immunity from seizure of their personal baggage unless there are serious grounds for believing that the baggage contains articles the import or export of which is prohibited by law or controlled by the quarantine regulations of the State Party concerned ; ( c ) Immunity from legal process of every kind in respect of words spoken or written and all acts performed by them in the course of their testimony , which immunity shall continue to be accorded even after their appearance and testimony before the Court ; ( d ) Inviolability of papers and documents in whatever form and materials relating to their testimony ; ( e ) For purposes of their communications with the Court and counsel in connection with their testimony , the right to receive and send papers and documents in whatever form ; ( f ) Exemption from immigration restrictions or alien registration when they travel for purposes of their testimony ; ( g ) The same repatriation facilities in time of international crisis as are accorded to diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention . Witnesses who enjoy the privileges , immunities and facilities referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall be provided by the Court with a document certifying that their appearance is required by the Court and specifying a time period during which such appearance is necessary . Article 20 Victims Victims participating in the proceedings in accordance with rules 89 to 91 of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence shall enjoy the following privileges , immunities and facilities to the extent necessary for their appearance before the Court , including the time spent on journeys in connection with their appearance before the Court , subject to the production of the document referred to in paragraph 2 of this article : ( a ) Immunity from personal arrest or detention ; ( b ) Immunity from seizure of their personal baggage unless there are serious grounds for believing that the baggage contains articles the import or export of which is prohibited by law or controlled by the quarantine regulations of the State Party concerned ; ( c ) Immunity from legal process of every kind in respect of words spoken or written and all acts performed by them in the course of their appearance before the Court , which immunity shall continue to be accorded even after their appearance before the Court ; ( d ) Exemption from immigration restrictions or alien registration when they travel to and from the Court for purposes of their appearance . Victims participating in the proceedings in accordance with rules 89 to 91 of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence who enjoy the privileges , immunities and facilities referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall be provided by the Court with a document certifying their participation in the proceedings of the Court and specifying a time period for that participation . Article 21 Experts Experts performing functions for the Court shall be accorded the following privileges , immunities and facilities to the extent necessary for the independent exercise of their functions , including the time spent on journeys in connection with their functions , subject to production of the document referred to in paragraph 2 of this article : ( a ) Immunity from personal arrest or detention and from seizure of their personal baggage ; ( b ) Immunity from legal process of every kind in respect of words spoken or written and all acts performed by them in the course of the performance of their functions , which immunity shall continue to be accorded even after the termination of their functions ; ( c ) Inviolability of papers and documents in whatever form and materials relating to their functions ; ( d ) For the purposes of their communications with the Court , the right to receive and send papers and documents in whatever form and materials relating to their functions by courier or in sealed bags ; ( e ) Exemption from inspection of personal baggage , unless there are serious grounds for believing that the baggage contains articles the import or export of which is prohibited by law or controlled by the quarantine regulations of the State Party concerned ; an inspection in such a case shall be conducted in the presence of the expert concerned ; ( f ) The same privileges in respect of currency and exchange facilities as are accorded to representatives of foreign Governments on temporary official missions ; ( g ) The same repatriation facilities in time of international crisis as are accorded to diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention ; ( h ) Exemption from immigration restrictions or alien registration in relation to their functions as specified in the document referred to in paragraph 2 of this article . Experts who enjoy the privileges , immunities and facilities referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall be provided by the Court with a document certifying that they are performing functions for the Court and specifying a time period for which their functions will last . Article 22 Other persons required to be present at the seat of the Court Other persons required to be present at the seat of the Court shall , to the extent necessary for their presence at the seat of the Court , including the time spent on journeys in connection with their presence , be accorded the privileges , immunities and facilities provided for in article 20 , paragraph 1 , subparagraphs ( a ) to ( d ) , of the present Agreement , subject to production of the document referred to in paragraph 2 of this article . Other persons required to be present at the seat of the Court shall be provided by the Court with a document certifying that their presence is required at the seat of the Court and specifying a time period during which such presence is necessary . Article 23 Cooperation with the authorities of States Parties The Court shall cooperate at all times with the appropriate authorities of States Parties to facilitate the enforcement of their laws and to prevent the occurrence of any abuse in connection with the privileges , immunities and facilities referred to in the present Agreement . Without prejudice to their privileges and immunities , it is the duty of all persons enjoying privileges and immunities under the present Agreement to respect the laws and regulations of the State Party in whose territory they may be on the business of the Court or through whose territory they may pass on such business . They also have a duty not to interfere in the internal affairs of that State . Article 24 Waiver of privileges and immunities provided for in articles 13 and 14 Privileges and immunities provided for in articles 13 and 14 of the present Agreement are accorded to the representatives of States and intergovernmental organizations not for the personal benefit of the individuals themselves , but in order to safeguard the independent exercise of their functions in connection with the work of the Assembly , its subsidiary organs and the Court . Consequently , States Parties not only have the right but are under a duty to waive the privileges and immunities of their representatives in any case where , in the opinion of those States , they would impede the course of justice and can be waived without prejudice to the purpose for which the privileges and immunities are accorded . States not party to the present Agreement and intergovernmental organizations are granted the privileges and immunities provided for in articles 13 and 14 of the present Agreement on the understanding that they undertake the same duty regarding waiver . Article 25 Waiver of privileges and immunities provided for in articles 15 to 22 The privileges and immunities provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the present Agreement are granted in the interests of the good administration of justice and not for the personal benefit of the individuals themselves . Such privileges and immunities may be waived in accordance with article 48 , paragraph 5 , of the Statute and the provisions of this article and there is a duty to do so in any particular case where they would impede the course of justice and can be waived without prejudice to the purpose for which they are accorded . The privileges and immunities may be waived : ( a ) In the case of a judge or the Prosecutor , by an absolute majority of the judges ; ( b ) In the case of the Registrar , by the Presidency ; ( c ) In the case of the Deputy Prosecutors and the staff of the Office of the Prosecutor , by the Prosecutor ; ( d ) In the case of the Deputy Registrar and the staff of the Registry , by the Registrar ; ( e ) In the case of personnel referred to in article 17 , by the head of the organ of the Court employing such personnel ; ( f ) In the case of counsel and persons assisting defence counsel , by the Presidency ; ( g ) In the case of witnesses and victims , by the Presidency ; ( h ) In the case of experts , by the head of the organ of the Court appointing the expert ; ( i ) In the case of other persons required to be present at the seat of the Court , by the Presidency . Article 26 Social security From the date on which the Court establishes a social security scheme , the persons referred to in articles 15 , 16 and 17 shall , with respect to services rendered for the Court , be exempt from all compulsory contributions to national social security schemes . Article 27 Notification The Registrar shall communicate periodically to all States Parties the names of the judges , the Prosecutor , the Deputy Prosecutors , the Registrar , the Deputy Registrar , the staff of the Office of the Prosecutor , the staff of the Registry and counsel to whom the provisions of the present Agreement apply . The Registrar shall also communicate to all States Parties information on any change in the status of these persons . Article 28 Laissez-passer The States Parties shall recognize and accept the United Nations laissez-passer or the travel document issued by the Court to the judges , the Prosecutor , the Deputy Prosecutors , the Registrar , the Deputy Registrar , the staff of the Office of the Prosecutor and the staff of the Registry as valid travel documents . Article 29 Visas Applications for visas or entry / exit permits , where required , from all persons who are holders of the United Nations laissez-passer or of the travel document issued by the Court , and also from persons referred to in articles 18 to 22 of the present Agreement who have a certificate issued by the Court confirming that they are travelling on the business of the Court , shall be dealt with by the States Parties as speedily as possible and granted free of charge . Article 30 Settlement of disputes with third parties The Court shall , without prejudice to the powers and responsibilities of the Assembly under the Statute , make provisions for appropriate modes of settlement of : ( a ) Disputes arising out of contracts and other disputes of a private law character to which the Court is a party ; ( b ) Disputes involving any person referred to in the present Agreement who , by reason of his or her official position or function in connection with the Court , enjoys immunity , if such immunity has not been waived . Article 31 Settlement of differences on the interpretation or application of the present Agreement All differences arising out of the interpretation or application of the present Agreement between two or more States Parties or between the Court and a State Party shall be settled by consultation , negotiation or other agreed mode of settlement . If the difference is not settled in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article within three months following a written request by one of the parties to the difference , it shall , at the request of either party , be referred to an arbitral tribunal according to the procedure set forth in paragraphs 3 to 6 of this article . The arbitral tribunal shall be composed of three members : one to be chosen by each party to the difference and the third , who shall be the chairman of the tribunal , to be chosen by the other two members . If either party has failed to make its appointment of a member of the tribunal within two months of the appointment of a member by the other party , that other party may invite the President of the International Court of Justice to make such appointment . Should the first two members fail to agree upon the appointment of the chairman of the tribunal within two months following their appointment , either party may invite the President of the International Court of Justice to choose the chairman . Unless the parties to the difference otherwise agree , the arbitral tribunal shall determine its own procedure and the expenses shall be borne by the parties as assessed by the tribunal . The arbitral tribunal , which shall decide by a majority of votes , shall reach a decision on the difference on the basis of the provisions of the present Agreement and the applicable rules of international law . The decision of the arbitral tribunal shall be final and binding on the parties to the difference . The decision of the arbitral tribunal shall be communicated to the parties to the difference , to the Registrar and to the Secretary-General . Article 32 Applicability of the present Agreement The present Agreement is without prejudice to relevant rules of international law , including international humanitarian law . Article 33 Signature , ratification , acceptance , approval or accession The present Agreement shall be open for signature by all States until ... at the seat of the Court in The Hague and thereafter until ... at United Nations Headquarters in New York . The present Agreement is subject to ratification , acceptance or approval by signatory States . Instruments of ratification , acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Secretary-General . The present Agreement shall remain open for accession by all States . The instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Secretary-General . Article 34 Entry into force The present Agreement shall enter into force thirty days after the date of deposit with the Secretary-General of the tenth instrument of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession . For each State ratifying , accepting , approving or acceding to the present Agreement after the deposit of the tenth instrument of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession , the Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day following the deposit with the Secretary-General of its instrument of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession . Article 35 Amendments Any State Party may , by written communication addressed to the Secretary-General , propose amendments to the present Agreement . The Secretary-General shall circulate such communication to all States Parties and the Bureau of the Assembly with a request that States Parties notify the Secretary-General whether they favour a Review Conference of States Parties to discuss the proposal . If , within three months from the date of circulation by the Secretary-General , a majority of States Parties notify the Secretary-General that they favour a Review Conference , the Secretary-General shall request the Bureau of the Assembly to convene such a Conference in connection with the next regular or special session of the Assembly . The adoption of an amendment on which consensus can not be reached shall require a two-thirds majority of States Parties present and voting , provided that a majority of States Parties is present . The Secretary-General shall circulate to all States Parties and signatory States any amendment adopted at a Review Conference . An amendment shall enter into force for States Parties which have ratified or accepted the amendment sixty days after two thirds of the States which were Parties at the date of adoption of the amendment have deposited instruments of ratification or acceptance with the Secretary-General . For each State Party ratifying or accepting an amendment after the deposit of the required number of instruments of ratification or acceptance , the amendment shall enter into force on the sixtieth day following the deposit of its instrument of ratification or acceptance . A State which becomes a Party to the present Agreement after the entry into force of an amendment in accordance with paragraph 5 shall , failing an expression of different intention by that State : ( a ) Be considered a Party to the present Agreement as so amended ; and ( b ) Be considered a Party to the unamended Agreement in relation to any State Party not bound by the amendment . Article 36 Denunciation A State Party may , by written notification addressed to the Secretary-General , denounce the present Agreement . The denunciation shall take effect one year after the date of receipt of the notification , unless the notification specifies a later date . The denunciation shall not in any way affect the duty of any State Party to fulfil any obligation embodied in the present Agreement to which it would be subject under international law independently of the present Agreement . Article 37 Depositary The Secretary-General shall be the depositary of the present Agreement . Article 38 Authentic texts The original of the present Agreement , of which the Arabic , Chinese , English , French , Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic , shall be deposited with the Secretary-General . IN WITNESS THEREOF , the undersigned , being duly authorized thereto , have signed the present Agreement ."	Legal
1035	"Please read this agreement carefully before accessing or using the service . By accessing or using the service , you agree to be bound by the terms and conditions below . This agreement may be modified at any time , and such modifications shall be effective immediately upon posting of the modified agreement . Advertiser terms and conditions form part of our general terms for use of the Site . PARTIES 1 . JobsRSL . co. uk ( the "" Supplier "" ) 2 . [ Company Name ] of [ address ) ( "" the Subscriber "" ) AGREED TERMS 1 . Definitions and Interpretation In this agreement , the following terms shall have the following meanings : "" Data "" means the information regarding ( a ) potential candidates for jobs and ( b ) job vacancies contained in the Supplier's central database ; "" Permitted Purpose "" means the purpose ( s ) detailed in the schedule ; "" Service "" means the service described in the schedule . 2 . Term Subject to Clause 8 , this agreement shall commence on the date of receipt by the supplier of the signed Order Form in accordance with Clause 4.1 and continue for a period of 12 months from that date . At the end of such period this agreement will not be automatically renewed . 3 . Supply of Service 3.1 The Supplier grants to the Subscriber the right to : ( a ) use the Service ; ( b ) upload details of the Subscriber's job vacancies for publication as Data . In accordance with the terms and subject to the restrictions contained in this agreement . 3.2 The Subscriber may store and copy any Data and use it for its own internal purposes that are ancillary to the Permitted Purpose . 3.3 The Subscriber acknowledges that any details it uploads in accordance with clause 3.1 ( b ) may be freely publicised by the Supplier other than through the suppliers website . 4 . Price and Payment 4.1 The Subscriber shall pay to the Supplier for services described on the Booking Form in full , but subject always to clause 7.3 4.2 All charges referred to in this agreement are exclusive of VAT . The Subscriber shall pay to the Supplier all applicable VAT and other taxes imposed on charges for services or supplies made by the Supplier under this agreement . 4.3 The Supplier may invoice for all sums payable under this agreement as they become due and each such invoice shall be paid by the Subscriber within 14 days of the date of the invoice . 4.4 The Supplier may charge interest on all sums outstanding beyond the date on which they are due for payment under this agreement from the date payment was due until the date of payment ( before and after any judgement ) at a rate of 2 % per annum above bank base rate . 5 . Standard of Service 5.1 The Supplier shall supply services related to the Service under this agreement with reasonable care and skill and by means of appropriately skilled and qualified personnel . 5.2 The Subscriber acknowledges that the Supplier relies upon third parties for the provision of Data . The Supplier shall use its reasonable endeavours to ensure ( by obtaining confirmation from the provider ) the accuracy of the Data as at the date of its provision to the Supplier . In the event that any inaccuracy or error comes to the attention of the Supplier , it shall use reasonable endeavours to : ( a ) Notify the Subscriber as soon as reasonable practicable : ( b ) rectify the error or inaccuracy ; The above shall be the Subscriber's only remedy for any inaccuracy or error in the Data . No term , warranty or condition is offered by the Supplier in respect of the accuracy or quality of the Data . 5.3 In the event of the Service being unavailable for any consecutive period of 24 hours or more the term of this Agreement under clause 2 shall be extended by the period of such unavailability , without further payment by the Subscriber but the Supplier shall have no further liability to the Subscriber in respect of such non-availability . 5.4 This agreement contains all of the terms relating to the Service and its use and operation . Save as set out in this agreement , all other conditions , warranties or other terms ( express or implied ) shall not apply . 6 . Limitation of Liability Subject to Clauses 5.2 and 5.3 the Supplier accepts no liability for : ( a ) any loss or damage arising as a result of any error or inaccuracy in the Data ; or ( b ) any indirect or consequential loss or damage ( however arising ) , including loss or profits , loss of sales , loss of turnover , loss of bargain , loss of opportunity , loss of use of computer equipment , software or data or loss of time on the part of management or other staff . 7 . Obligations of the Subscriber 7.1 The Subscriber shall not use , disclose or hold any data in contravention of any provision of the Data Protection Act 1998 and / or the Data Protection Principles and / or any other statute or regulation . 7.2 The Subscriber warrants that any information or material uploaded to the Service : ( a ) shall not contravene any applicable laws or legislation including ( without limitation ) : ( i ) the Obscene Publications Act 1959 ( as amended ) ( ii ) the Protection of Children Act 1978 ; ( iii ) the Indecent Displays Act 1981 ( iv ) the Consumer Credit Act 1974 ( v ) the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 ; ( vi ) the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 . or any equivalent or similar statute in any territory in which the Supplier's Web Site may be accessed . ( b ) shall not contain defamatory or otherwise actionable material ; ( c ) shall not infringe any intellectual property rights of any third party . The Subscriber shall indemnify the Supplier in respect of all loss , damages , costs , expenses ( including legal costs on an indemnity basis ) which the Supplier incurs , suffers or becomes liable for a result of any breach by the Subscriber of the warranty set out above . 7.3 On completion of this agreement the Supplier will issue to the Subscriber a unique log-on and password . The Subscriber acknowledges that such log-on and password is in relation to one physical site only of the subscriber ( a "" Location "" ) . The Subscriber accepts that the Supplier is entitled to charge under clause 4.1 in respect of each Location using the service from the date of the first such use by the relevant Location . 7.4 The Subscriber acknowledges that access to and use of the Service will be denied if it has breached the terms of this agreement . 8 . Termination 8.1 Either party may terminate this agreement immediately by notice to the other : ( a ) if any distress or execution is levied on any of the other 's property or assets ; ( b ) if the other makes or offers to make any arrangement or composition with creditors ; ( c ) if any resolution or petition to wind up the other 's business ( other than for the purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction ) shall be passed or presented or if a receiver or administrative receiver of the other 's undertaking , property or assets shall be appointed or a petition presented for the appointment of an administrator . but the Subscriber acknowledges that save in such circumstances it has no right to terminate this agreement before the expiry of the term referred to in clause 2 . 8.2 In the event of termination by the Subscriber , monies paid will not be refunded , in part or in full . 8.3 In the event of any breach by the Subscriber of any of its obligations under this agreement ( including any obligations as to payment ) , the Supplier shall ( without prejudice to any other right or remedy available to it ) have the right to suspend performance of its obligations under this agreement until the Subscriber's obligations have been fully and properly performed . 9 . Consequences of termination or suspension 9.1 In the event of termination of this agreement , the Subscriber shall immediately cease to access and use the Service and the Supplier shall , without any further notice to the Subscriber , invalidate the Subscriber's password and access code . 9.2 In the event of suspension of the Subscriber's licence , the Supplier will , without further notice to the Subscriber immediately invalidate the Subscriber's access code and password . In such circumstances , the Supplier reserves the right to require advance payments from the Subscriber before resuming performance of its obligations under this agreement . 10 . Delay and Force Majeure Neither party shall be liable for any delay or failure in performing any of its obligations under this Agreement of such delay or failure is caused by circumstances outside the reasonable control of the party concerned ( including without limitation any delay caused by any act or default of the other party ) . 11 . Waiver of Remedies No forbearance , delay or indulgence by either party in enforcing the provisions of this Agreement shall prejudice or restrict the rights of the party nor shall any waiver of its rights operate as a waiver of any subsequent breach and no right , power or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved for either party is exclusive of any other right , power or remedy available to that party and each such right , power and remedy shall be cumulative . 12 . Notices All notices and consents under this agreement shall be in writing . Notices shall be sent to the address of the recipient set out in this agreement or to such other address as either party shall notify to the other in accordance with this Clause . Any letter may be delivered by hand or first class pre-paid letter and shall be deemed to be delivered if sent by hand when delivered and if by first class post 48 hours after posting . 13 . Entire Agreement This agreement ( as varied in accordance with its terms ) forms the entire understanding of the parties and supercedes all previous agreements , understanding and representatives relating to its subject matter . 14 . Governing Law and Jurisdiction This agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of England . Any dispute that arises between the parties concerning this agreement shall be determined by the High Court of Justice in England and the parties hereby submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of that Court for such purpose . Service The Service comprises access to the Supplier's Data through the World Wide Web . Permitted Purpose The permitted purpose shall be either or both of the following : ( i ) acquiring information about jobseekers and potential candidates in order to satisfy the recruitment requirements of the Subscriber ( or those of its clients ) ; ( ii ) publicising information about the Subscriber's job vacancies . Charges As detailed on Order Form . Top of Page Design and hosting by Strategies .. Terms | Privacy policy | © 2004 JobsRSL . co. uk is part of Ocean Edge ."	Legal
1319	A major tooth implant is a procedure exactly where the root of your natural tooth is regarded as replaced with an artificial one , by - grounding it into a pre-fixed outlet in the jawbone . This outlet holds your artificial tooth properly established . Implants are made from a material branded titanium , which is tooth-friendly and can be incorporated in the bone tissue . Now , you might ask , how would be tooth implant carried out ? Well , here 's the answer to your uncertainty ! An essential risk encountered by the patient centered on the incompatibility between implants and also the receptive bone . To avoid a disorder that of this ilk , the dentist scientific the density of the jawbone in order to to understand if it is sufficiently strong to resist the surgery . It 's going to not done and the implants in order to integrate , they may not function during they are supposed to ; i.e. , a person become loose and as a result , over a period , may dislodge their company completely . If the surgery is not successful at first , the procedure is recurrent once the patient recovers , and the of the jaw has improved . Disaster of the Implants : In some cases , the implant may not be set properly in the socket drilled regarding the bone leading to loosening at the implant . The dental hair treatment may not also set well using the bone imparting weakness to their entire structure . Regardless of the procedure is , there are be certain to great risks involved and often patients find out that the quick restore does not yield the results them to be expecting . This often a extremely popular let down for many patients a number of can actually suffer mental trauma as a result of experience and the adverse effects upon the health and appearance of the sufferer . Xenograft bone grafting uses animal bones , the same as a cow bone . The joints are sterilized and processed to provide them compatible to the patient's health . They act as fillers , simply because the patient's body will gradually adjust them into natural bones .	Information/Explanation
393	Can I spend time on an elective ? Yes . At Newcastle , we realize it 's important for you to gain as broad an experience as possible . This is why we give you the chance to spend 11 weeks ( including a fortnight's holiday ! ) studying medicine outside Newcastle University as part of Phase II . You can choose any aspect of the subject and go anywhere in the world . Many students go to Africa , India or the United States . Recent students have worked in : the Paediatric Department at Kilimanjaro Medical Centre in Tanzania ; the Accident and Emergency Department at University Hospital in Malaysia ; Community Medicine at Chieng Yun Hospital in Thailand ; the Department of Medicine Santa Lucia , in the Carribean ; Paediatric Emergency Medicine at the Royal Children's Hospital in Brisbane , Australia . Our Electives Supervisor will give you advice and help you choose where to go . We can even offer competitive grants of up to £ 350 to help you out .	Promotion
202	Submission of second and , where appropriate , third national communications from Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention Draft conclusions proposed by the Chair Recommendation of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation The Subsidiary Body for Implementation , at its twenty-first session , decided to transmit the draft text below to the President of the Conference of the Parties for further consideration . Draft decision - / CP . 10 Submission of second and , where appropriate , third national communications from Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention The Conference of the Parties , Recalling , in particular , Article 4 , paragraphs 1 , 3 and 7 , Article 10 , paragraph 2 ( a ) , and Article 12 , paragraphs 1 , 5 and 7 , of the Convention , Recalling also its decisions on national communications from Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention ( non-Annex I Parties ) , in particular its decisions 10 / CP . 2 , 2 / CP . 4 , 12 / CP . 4 , 8 / CP . 5 , 31 / CP . 7 , 32 / CP . 7 and 17 / CP . 8 , Reaffirming that , in accordance with Article 4 , paragraph 3 , of the Convention , the developed country Parties and other developed Parties included in Annex II to the Convention shall provide new and additional financial resources to meet the agreed full costs incurred by developing country Parties in complying with their obligations under Article 12 , paragraph 1 , of the Convention , Noting that guidelines for the preparation of national communications were adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its eighth session , Noting also that in accordance with decision 17 / CP . 8 , non-Annex I Parties should use the guidelines contained in the annex to that decision , together with the guidance to an operating entity of the financial mechanism provided in decision 6 / CP . 8 , for the preparation of second and , where appropriate , third national communications and , where appropriate , initial national communications , except where Parties had initiated the process of preparing second national communications and received funding under the expedited procedures or on an agreed full-cost basis prior to the approval of the guidelines , Recognizing that the preparation of national communications is a continuing process , Recognizing also that the submission of national communications is very important for Parties to better understand climate change issues , Recognizing further the difficulties that non-Annex I Parties have had in preparing their initial national communications and the need to build capacity for using the new guidelines for the preparation of national communications from non-Annex I Parties , and the need to allocate adequate time to non-Annex I Parties for preparing their national communications , [ Acknowledging the importance of inventories of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases not controlled by the Montreal Protocol and measures to facilitate adequate adaptation to climate change and the possibility for non-Annex I Parties to provide updates of relevant information , as addenda to their national communications , ] Acknowledging that although the majority of non-Annex I Parties have submitted their initial national communications and some have also submitted their second national communications , a number of non-Annex I Parties are still having difficulties with the preparation and submission of their initial national communications due to both technical and resource constraints , Acknowledging that the Global Environment Facility , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism of the Convention , has agreed to fund , and has approved the funds for , the preparation of national communications , and has agreed on the Operational Procedures for Expedited Financing of National Communications from non-Annex I Parties , Invites Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention ( non-Annex I Parties ) that have not prepared project proposals for the financing of second and , where appropriate , third national communications to do so , even in advance of substantially completing their previous national communications , in order to avoid a lack of continuity in project financing ; Decides that non-Annex I Parties that have submitted their national communications should apply for the financing of their subsequent national communications at any time between three to five years of the initial disbursement of financial resources for the actual preparation of their previous national communications , except for those Parties that had this initial disbursement for the previous national communication more than five years ago , which should apply before 2006 ; this applies to the financing of second , and where appropriate third , national communications ; Decides that non-Annex I Parties shall submit their second and , where appropriate , third national communication within [ four ] years of the initial disbursement of financial resources for the actual preparation of the national communication , in accordance with Article 4 , paragraph 3 , of the Convention , under the expedited procedures or standard approved procedures , on an agreed full cost basis , but that Parties that are least developed countries may submit their second national communications at their discretion ; Decides to discuss the further implementation of Article 12 , paragraph 5 , at the [ fourteenth ] session of the Conference of Parties . English	Legal
892	"Hoot-toot !  said Uncle Ebenezer , "" dinnae fly up in the snuff at me . We 'll agree fine yet . And , Davie , my man , if you 're done with that bit parritch , I could just take a sup of it myself . Ay , "" he continued , as soon as he had ousted me from the stool and spoon , "" they 're fine , halesome food -- they 're grand food , parritch . "" He murmured a little grace to himself and fell to . "" Your father was very fond of his meat , I mind ; he was a hearty , if not a great eater ; but as for me , I could never do mair than pyke at food . "" He took a pull at the small beer , which probably reminded him of hospitable duties , for his next speech ran thus : "" If ye 're dry ye 'll find water behind the door . "" To this I returned no answer , standing stiffly on my two feet , and looking down upon my uncle with a mighty angry heart . He , on his part , continued to eat like a man under some pressure of time , and to throw out little darting glances now at my shoes and now at my home-spun stockings . Once only , when he had ventured to look a little higher , our eyes met ; and no thief taken with a hand in a man's pocket could have shown more lively signals of distress . This set me in a muse , whether his timidity arose from too long a disuse of any human company ; and whether perhaps , upon a little trial , it might pass off , and my uncle change into an altogether different man . From this I was awakened by his sharp voice . "" Your father 's been long dead ? "" he asked . "" Three weeks , sir , "" said I. "" He was a secret man , Alexander -- a secret , silent man , "" he continued . "" He never said muckle when he was young . He 'll never have spoken muckle of me ? "" "" I never knew , sir , till you told it me yourself , that he had any brother . "" "" Dear me , dear me ! "" said Ebenezer . "" Nor yet of Shaws , I dare say ? "" "" Not so much as the name , sir , "" said I. "" To think o ' that ! "" said he . "" A strange nature of a man ! "" For all that , he seemed singularly satisfied , but whether with himself , or me , or with this conduct of my father's , was more than I could read . Certainly , however , he seemed to be outgrowing that distaste , or ill-will , that he had conceived at first against my person ; for presently he jumped up , came across the room behind me , and hit me a smack upon the shoulder . "" We 'll agree fine yet ! "" he cried . "" I 'm just as glad I let you in . And now come awa ' to your bed . "" To my surprise , he lit no lamp or candle , but set forth into the dark passage , groped his way , breathing deeply , up a flight of steps , and paused before a door , which he unlocked . I was close upon his heels , having stumbled after him as best I might ; and then he bade me go in , for that was my chamber . I did as he bid , but paused after a few steps , and begged a light to go to bed with . "" Hoot-toot ! "" said Uncle Ebenezer , "" there 's a fine moon . "" "" Neither moon nor star , sir , and pit-mirk , "" [ 2 ] said I. "" I cannae see the bed . "" [ 2 ] Dark as the pit . "" Hoot-toot , hoot-toot ! "" said he . "" Lights in a house is a thing I dinnae agree with . I 'm unco feared of fires . Good-night to ye , Davie , my man . "" And before I had time to add a further protest , he pulled the door to , and I heard him lock me in from the outside . I did not know whether to laugh or cry . The room was as cold as a well , and the bed , when I had found my way to it , as damp as a peat-hag ; but by good fortune I had caught up my bundle and my plaid , and rolling myself in the latter , I lay down upon the floor under lee of the big bedstead , and fell speedily asleep ."	Prose/Lyrical
1050	"NOTARIES ( POST-ADMISSION ) RULES 1991 Incorporating amendments made by the Notaries ( Qualification ) Rules 1998 with effect from 1 February 1999 . Citation and Commencement 1 . These rules may be cited as the Notaries ( Post-Admission ) Rules 1991 , and shall come into operation on the 8th day of July 1991 . Interpretation 2 . In these Rules "" The Faculty Office "" means the Registry of the Court of Faculties ; "" The Master "" means the Master of the Faculties ; "" The Registrar "" means the Registrar of the Court of Faculties . Period of practice under supervision 3 . ( 1 ) This Rule shall apply to all Notaries admitted to practise in England and Wales ( other than Notaries to whom Rule 10 applies and Notaries for ecclesiastical purposes only ) on or after the 13th day of June 1990 ( 2 ) A notary to whom this Rule applies shall be required to complete a period of practice under supervision in accordance with this Rule which shall commence ( a ) in the case of a notary admitted after the date on which this Rule comes into effect , or of a notary admitted before that date but not in practice on that date , on the date on which he commences or resumes practice as a notary ; or ( b ) in any other case , as soon as arrangements for supervision can practicably be made , but not in any event later than two months after this rule comes into effect . ( 3 ) Subject to paragraph ( 4 ) of this Rule , the duration of the period of practice under supervision shall be two years , less either of the following : ( a ) any period of apprenticeship served pursuant to section 2 of the Public Notaries Act 1801 or pursuant to requirements of the Incorporated Company of Scriveners of London imposed under section 57 ( 11 ) ( b ) of the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990 ; ( b ) any period spent in actual practice as a notary , prior to the coming into effect of these Rules , by a district notary appointed pursuant to the Public Notaries Act 1833 . ( 4 ) The Master may direct that the period of practice under supervision be extended in any particular case , either : ( a ) as a condition of approving a change of supervision under paragraph ( 5 ) of rule 4 , or ( b ) following his consideration of a report submitted pursuant to paragraph ( 3 ) of rule 7 , or ( c ) following disciplinary proceedings . Selection of supervisor 4 . ( 1 ) During the period of practice under supervision the notary to whom this Rule applies ( "" the supervised notary "" ) shall practise as a notary only under the supervision ( as defined in rule 5 ) of another notary ( "" the supervisor "" ) who holds a current practising certificate entered in or issued from the Court of Faculties , and who has been engaged in actual practice as a notary for not less than five years immediately preceding the period of supervision . ( 2 ) A person who has no usual place of business within 50 miles ( or within a distance which he is able to travel in two hours in normal conditions , if shorter ) of the office from which a supervised notary proposes to practise shall not act as supervisor of that notary unless his appointment as such is confirmed by the Master . ( 3 ) It shall be the duty of a supervised notary to notify the Faculty Office upon request of the name and address of his supervisor ; and it shall be the duty of any notary to notify the Faculty Office upon request of the names and addresses of all notaries of whom he is the supervisor . ( 4 ) A supervised notary shall , upon the death or retirement from practice of his supervisor , forthwith make arrangements for another notary qualified under this Rule to supervise his practice for the remainder of the required period ; and any time between the death or retirement of the former supervisor and the coming into effect of such arrangements shall not count towards the period of supervised practice . ( 5 ) If for any reason other than the death or retirement of the supervisor , either party wishes the appointment of a particular supervisor to be terminated before the expiry of the required period of supervised practice , application shall be made for that purpose to the Master , who may terminate the supervision upon such conditions as he shall think fit . Extent of supervision 5 . ( 1 ) The following aspects of a notary's practice shall be excluded from the general requirement of supervision ( but not from the obligation to produce records and accounts under paragraph ( 2 ) of this Rule ) : ( a ) conveyancing and probate , in the case of a notary who is also a solicitor and who would be entitled to carry out conveyance and probate as a solicitor without supervision , or who does in fact receive such supervision in relation to his practice as a solicitor as is required by the Solicitors Act 1974 and Rules made thereunder ; ( b ) conveyancing , in the case of a notary who is also a licensed conveyancer and who would be entitled to carry out conveyancing as such without supervision , or who does in fact receive such supervision in relation to his practice as a licensed conveyancer as is required by the statutes and rules governing that profession . ( 2 ) The supervisor shall visit the office of the supervised notary at least once in every period of four months , and shall inspect the records and accounts of the supervised notary relating to that period , which the supervised notary shall ( subject to paragraph ( 3 ) of this Rule ) produce to the supervisor on request . ( 3 ) If it appears to a supervised notary that papers relating to the business of a particular client can not be shown to his supervisor without causing a breach of the duty of confidentiality owed to that client ( whether on account of a relationship between the client and the supervisor , or because the supervisor is known to act for a person in competition with the client , or for any other reason ) , he shall inform the supervisor of that fact . The supervisor may nominate another notary ( qualified to be a supervisor under rule 4 ( 1 ) but not subject to the same objections of confidentiality as respects the client concerned ) and the notary nominated shall , if willing to act , have the supervisor's rights and duties in relation to those papers . ( 4 ) The supervisor shall make himself available at all reasonable times to offer advice and guidance to the supervised notary on matters covered by the supervision . ( 5 ) The supervisor shall take particular care to ensure ( so far as he is able ) that the supervised notary is aware of , and complies with , all Rules and Orders made by the Master under section 57 of the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990 , and conducts himself in a manner calculated to maintain the reputation of the office and profession of a public notary . Post-Admission Education 6 . Every supervised notary shall , during each year of his period of practice under supervision , attend ( a ) one full-day course or seminar approved by the Master covering the topics of Bills of Exchange , Notarial Practice and Professional Conduct ; ( b ) if desiring to carry out conveyancing as part of his notarial practice , one full-day continuing education course or seminar in conveyancing approved by the Master ; and ( c ) if desiring to carry out probate work as part of his notarial practice , one full-day continuing education course or seminar in probate approved by the Master ; and shall make a report to his supervisor on the course or seminar attended . Records and reporting 7 . ( 1 ) A report of every visit and inspection made pursuant to paragraph ( 2 ) of rule 5 shall be made by the supervisor , and shall be inserted in the Register or other permanent record kept by each notary pursuant to the Notaries ( Records ) Rules 1991 . ( 2 ) The supervisor shall enter in the Register or other permanent record kept by him pursuant to the Notaries ( Records ) Rules 1991 a note of any advice or guidance given to a supervised notary pursuant to paragraph 4 of rule 5 . ( 3 ) Upon the completion of a period of practice under supervision ( or upon the retirement from practice of a supervisor during such a period ) , the supervisor shall report the fact of such completion to the Master in writing and shall indicate the courses or seminars attended by the supervised notary pursuant to rule 6 , and whether in his opinion the supervised notary should thereafter be permitted to practise without supervision . The supervisor and the supervised notary shall respond in writing to any questions put by the Master in relation to the period of supervision , and produce to the Faculty Office such documents as the Master may require . Fees 8 . A notary agreeing to act as a supervisor shall be entitled to charge the supervised notary a fee not exceeding the level prescribed from time to time in Regulations made by the Master ( which may include provision for expenses ) , together with the amount of any Value Added Tax due thereon . If for any reason the appointment of the supervisor ceases before the end of the period of supervision , the fee shall be apportioned pro rata or as the Master may direct . Dispensations 9 . The Master may , upon such application made to him as he deems sufficient , for good cause dispense any notary from the requirement of supervision under these Rules or permit such lesser supervision as he considers practicable in the circumstances of any particular case . European Economic Area Notaries 10 . The provisions of these Rules shall not apply to any Notary who , immediately prior to his admission , was recognised by the Master as qualified for admission under the provisions of rule 9 of the Notaries ( Qualification ) Rules 1998 ."	Legal
618	I interior designed this taxi for my degree show at St Martins , It is something I 've wanted to do since I first came to London about 14 years ago . I think the inside space of a taxi felt so much like a sitting room I wanted to decorate . In the end I chose this woodland theme . But I just Interior decorated , I wanted to leave the out side the same , so it is a surprise when you step in and hopefully it transports you into a completely unexpected environment . All the fabric except the astro turf floor has been digitally printed on to furnishing fabric , I then screen printed flowers , frogs , butterfly1s , etc , then I put wadding behind the fabric and sowed into it . Final I took it to an Upholstery factory in wales were I learnt to Upholster and Bob 's your Uncle , country side in a London Cab .	Opinion/Argumentation
270	The eLearning Innovation Support Unit GCU Digital Video Project Knowledge , Work & Learning OCL International Exchange Programme Cisco networking academy Listen & learn through the web 10 rules of IT security The other September 11th ( 1973 ) C & IT Help Column : Meeting Maker Breaking through the walls It 's a fair cop : The Scottish Centre for Work Based Learning The Scottish Centre for Work Based Learning ( SCWBL ) has just had an arresting encounter with Strathclyde Police . No , it is not what you think . The Strathclyde Police Training College , based in Jackton near East Kilbride , has just agreed to a work based learning programme in training and learning for its staff of police trainers . This will be entirely designed and delivered by the SCWBL . The college recruits police officers who are at the leading edge of their specialism to train other police officers - in ICT , for example . These trainers stay on average three years in the college before returning to normal duties . So there is constant movement of officers ( or students as we would now like to call them ) . The intention is to make the work based learning programme compulsory guaranteeing a healthy supply of students . The officers have a qualification up to level two , so by undertaking six modules at level three with Glasgow Caledonian University over their stay at Jackton , they will be able to graduate with a general degree . The curriculum will cover : Personal and Professional Development ; Teaching and Learning ; Leadership , Motivation and Group Dynamics ; Curriculum Development including Training Needs Analysis ; Quality and Evaluation and Organisational Culture and Change . Supporting materials will be available in paper based format for use during workshops . However , for those unable to attend workshops , or perhaps as well as for use during workshops , materials will also be available on the University's online managed learning environment system - Blackboard . The online materials will also include additional materials such as websites , further reading , student activities and formative assessments . One important aspect of the course from the Police Force's point of view is that Diversity - equal opportunities awareness - will run through all the materials and all the assessments . John Queen who has been working with the Strathclyde Police for some time on the TLTM programme and Alison Nimmo who provided exemplar materials for the discussions with the police force are delighted with the decision of the police . They are looking forward to supporting the first cohort of students / officers when they begin the course in April this year . Next article : Caledonian Programme : one year on Credits Writer : Vince Mills Senior Lecturer , The Scottish Centre for Work Based Learning E : v. m ills @ gcal . a c . u k	News
116	"Chapter 9 Bluetooth 9.1 Bluetooth Modes Bluetooth is a short-range wireless communications technology . Devices with Bluetooth capabilities can exchange information over a distance of about eight meters ( 26 feet ) without requiring a physical connection . Bluetooth on your device operates in three different modes : • On . Bluetooth is turned on . Your device can detect other Bluetooth-enabled devices , but not vice versa . • Visible . Bluetooth is turned on , and all other Bluetooth-enabled devices can detect your device . • Off . Bluetooth is turned off . In this mode , you can neither send nor receive information using Bluetooth . Note Turn off Bluetooth when not in use to conserve battery power , or in places where using a wireless device is prohibited , such as on board an aircraft and in hospitals . To turn Bluetooth on and make your device visible 1 . Tap Start > Settings > Communications and then tap Bluetooth . Tip You can also tap Start > Settings > All Settings > Connections tab and then tap Bluetooth . 2 . When prompted to turn on Bluetooth , tap Yes . 3 . Tap the Settings tab ( ) , and then tap Not Discoverable . 180 Bluetooth 4 . Tap the drop-down menu and then select Always Visible . Note If you select Visible for 60 seconds , Bluetooth visibility will turn off automatically when the time elapses and your device has not yet connected to another Bluetooth device . 5 . Tap Done . The icon then appears in the title bar to indicate that the device is in visible mode . Tip To easily switch Bluetooth off or back on , tap Start > Settings > Communications to open the Comm Manager and then tap Bluetooth's OFF / ON slider . Your device remembers whether visible mode was previously enabled or disabled . If you did not disable visible mode , switching Bluetooth on in the Comm Manager also puts your device in visible mode automatically . For more information about using the Comm Manager , see Chapter 13 . 9.2 Bluetooth Partnerships A Bluetooth partnership is a relationship that you create between your device and another Bluetooth-enabled device in order to exchange information in a secure manner . To create a Bluetooth partnership 1 . Tap Start > Settings > Communications and then tap Bluetooth . 2 . On the Settings tab ( ) , tap Add a device . 3 . Tap a Bluetooth device to connect with . 4 . Specify a passcode , which can be 1 up to 16 characters , to establish a secure connection , and then tap OK . Note Your device uses Bluetooth 2.1 with Secure Simple Pairing feature . If the other Bluetooth device you are pairing with also supports the same feature , the passcode will be automatically created and displayed on both devices . Both you and other party simply need to verify that the passcode is the same and tap Yes to establish the partnership . Bluetooth 181 5 . After the receiving party accepts the partnership , the Bluetooth device name is shown on the screen , including all Bluetooth services that you can use with it . Select the check boxes of the Bluetooth services you want to use , and then tap Done . 6 . If you selected to use the Bluetooth Serial Port service of the paired device , select a local serial port to assign for the paired device , and then tap Continue . The connected Bluetooth device now appears in the Devices tab ( Tip Tap Properties to change the paired device name . Tap Menu > Update to update the list of services that you can use with the paired device . ) . Creating a Bluetooth partnership between two devices is a one-time process . Once a partnership is created , the devices can recognize the partnership and exchange information without entering a passcode again . To accept a Bluetooth partnership 1 . Ensure that Bluetooth is turned on and in visible mode . 2 . When prompted , enter or accept the passcode ( the same passcode from the device requesting the partnership ) to establish a secure connection . 3 . Tap OK . The paired device now appears in the Devices tab ( now exchange information with the paired device . Tip ) . You can To delete a Bluetooth partnership , select the device's name on the Devices tab , then tap Menu > Delete . When prompted to confirm , tap Yes . 182 Bluetooth 9.3 Connecting a Bluetooth Hands-free or Stereo Headset For hands-free phone conversations , you can use a Bluetooth hands-free headset such as a car kit with your device . Your device also supports A2DP ( Advanced Audio Distribution Profile ) which allows you to use a Bluetooth stereo headset for handsfree phone conversations and for listening to stereo music . To connect a Bluetooth hands-free or stereo headset 1 . Make sure that both your device and the Bluetooth headset are turned on and within close range , and that the headset is visible . Refer to the manufacturer's documentation to find out how to set the headset in visible mode . 2 . Tap Start > Settings > Communications and then tap Bluetooth . 3 . On the Settings tab ( ) , tap Add a device . 4 . Select the hands-free or stereo headset device in the list , then tap Select . Your device will automatically with the Bluetooth headset . Note Your device will automatically try one of the preconfigured passcodes ( 0000 , 8888 ) to pair with the Bluetooth headset . If this fails , you have to manually enter the passcode delivered with your headset . 5 . When connected , the hands-free or stereo headset device is shown on the screen , including the Bluetooth services ( Hands-free and Stereo Audio ) that you can use with it . Make sure these services are selected , and then tap Continue . The paired headset now appears in the Devices tab ( ) . Bluetooth 183 The double arrowhead that is displayed to the right of a service indicates that the service is connected with your headset . If you turn off your headset , the double arrowhead disappears to indicate that the service has been disconnected . Next time you turn on and use your headset again , you need to manually reconnect each service . Tap a service and then tap Connect . 9.4 Sending and Receiving Information Using Bluetooth You can send the following types of information from your device to your computer or to another Bluetooth-enabled device : Outlook e-mail , contacts , tasks , notes , calendar items , audio files , ring tones , Images , and videos . Note If your computer does not have built-in Bluetooth capability , you need to connect and use a Bluetooth adapter or dongle on your computer . To send information from your device to a computer 1 . Turn on Bluetooth on your computer and set to visible mode . Note If the Bluetooth adapter or dongle on your computer was installed using a thirdparty provided driver , open the Bluetooth software that came with the Bluetooth adapter / dongle and enable the adapter / dongle to be discovered by other devices . Refer to the Bluetooth adapter's documentation for more information . 184 Bluetooth If your computer is installed with Windows XP SP2 or later version and your computer's Bluetooth adapter is supported by your Windows version , do the following steps : a . On your computer , open Bluetooth Devices from the Control Panel , then click the Options tab on the Bluetooth Devices window . b . For Windows Vista , select Allow Bluetooth devices to find this computer . For Windows XP , select Turn discovery on and Allow Bluetooth devices to connect to this computer . c . Create a Bluetooth partnership between your device and computer . For instructions , see "" To create a Bluetooth partnership "" . d . In the Options tab of Bluetooth Devices , select Show the Bluetooth icon in the notification area . e . To enable your computer to receive information via Bluetooth , right-click the Bluetooth icon in the notification area at the bottom-right corner of your computer screen and select Receive a File . You are now ready to send / receive . 2 . Turn on Bluetooth on your device and make your device visible . For instructions , see "" To turn Bluetooth on and make your device visible "" . 3 . Create a Bluetooth partnership . For instructions , see "" To create a Bluetooth partnership "" . 4 . Tap the Accessories tab ( then tap BT Send Object . ) , and Tap the left or right arrow to change to the type of information you want to send . 5 . Select the type of information and then select the check boxes of items you want to send . 6 . Tap Send . 7 . Select the Bluetooth device to which you want to send the items , then tap Select . Bluetooth 185 8 . If you sent Outlook E-mail messages , calendar items , tasks , or contacts to your computer and they are not automatically added to Outlook , select File > Import and Export in Outlook to import them . To send information to a Bluetooth-enabled device such as another Windows Mobile-powered device , follow steps 2 to 7 in the above procedure . Tip The default folder on your computer where sent items are stored may be C : \ Documents and Settings \ your_username \ My Documents \ Bluetooth Exchange Folder in Windows XP or C : \ Users \ your_username \ My Documents \ Bluetooth Exchange Folder in Windows Vista . To send a file to another Bluetooth-enabled device 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > File Explorer . 2 . Navigate to the folder that contains the file you want to send . 3 . Tap and hold the desired file , and then tap Send via Bluetooth . 4 . Select the name of the Bluetooth device , and then tap Select . To receive information from another Bluetooth-enabled device 1 . When you receive information such as calendar items , tasks , or contacts sent from another Bluetooth-enabled device , tap Accept . 2 . After your device has finished saving the information , tap Done . To change the folder for saving received files Files that you receive from another Bluetooth-enabled device are saved in \ My Documents on your device . You can change the destination folder for saving received files : 1 . Tap Start > Settings > Communications and then tap Bluetooth . 2 . On the Settings tab ( 4 . Tap Search ( ) . ) , tap Advanced . 3 . Scroll down and then tap File Transfer . 186 Bluetooth 5 . Select the new destination folder , and then tap Select . Tip To save received files on your storage card when it is inserted on your device , select Save files to storage card when present . Files will be saved on the root folder of your storage card . 6 . Tap Done . 9.5 Printing via Bluetooth Connect your device to a Bluetooth printer to print your pictures . Note Before you start printing , make sure to turn on the Bluetooth printer and turn on Bluetooth on your device . For instructions , see "" To turn Bluetooth on and make your device visible "" earlier in this chapter . To print a picture 1 . Tap Start > Settings > Communications and then tap Bluetooth . 2 . Tap the Accessories tab ( ) , and then tap Print Images . Your device then searches for pictures that are stored on your device and storage card . 3 . Tap each picture that you want to select for printing . To select all pictures , tap Menu > Select All . Tip To clear a selected picture , tap that picture again . 4 . After you have finished selecting pictures , tap Next . 5 . Select the name of the Bluetooth printer , and then tap Select . 6 . Select the Print Layout to use , and then tap Print . Bluetooth 187 9.6 Connecting to Car Kit Phones Bluetooth car kit phones that support the SIM Access Profile ( SAP ) can connect to your device and access its SIM card via Bluetooth . Once a SAP connection has been established , you can download device and / or SIM contacts from your device to the car kit phone , and use the car kit phone to answer and make calls . 1 . Tap Start > Settings > Communications and then tap Bluetooth . 2 . Turn Bluetooth on and set your device to visible mode . For instructions , see "" To turn Bluetooth on and make your device visible "" earlier in this chapter . 3 . On the Settings tab ( ) , tap Advanced . 4 . Scroll down and tap SIM Access . 5 . Select the Enable SIM Access Profile ( SAP ) check box , and then tap Done . 6 . Connect the car kit phone to your device via Bluetooth . For instructions , refer to your car kit phone 's manual . 7 . If this is the first time you are pairing the car kit phone with your device , enter the car kit phone's passcode on your device . 8 . A pop-up message should appear on your device saying that a connection has been established between your device and car kit phone . Tap OK . Note You are not able to make and receive calls , send and receive messages , or perform related activities on your device when the SIM Access Profile connection is active . You 'll be able to make or receive calls from the car kit phone during this time . After the connection is disconnected , you will be able to use your device as before . 188 Bluetooth"	Instruction
1221	Stannington farmhouse fire : Second body found Two people have been found dead after a fire at a farmhouse in Sheffield . South Yorkshire Police said a man and woman , believed to be in their 90s , were found in the building on Spout Lane in Stannington . Twenty firefighters from South Yorkshire Fire and Rescue were called to the blaze at 03 : 10 GMT . The blaze is now out with crews damping down at the scene and an investigation has been launched into the cause . More on this story and other news in South Yorkshire Acorn Way and Acorn Drive , which had been closed to traffic , have reopened . Four fire crews were called to the farmhouse in the early hours of the morning .	News
156	"I 'd like to talk today about the two biggest social trends in the coming century , and perhaps in the next 10,000 years . But I want to start with my work on romantic love , because that 's my most recent work . What I and my colleagues did was to put 32 people , who were madly in love , into a functional MRI brain scanner . 17 who were madly in love and their love was accepted ; and 15 who were madly in love and they had just been dumped . And so I want to tell you about that first , and then go on into where I think love is going . "" What ' tis to love ? "" Shakespeare said . I think our ancestors -- I think human beings have been wondering about this question since they sat around their campfires or lay and watched the stars a million years ago . I started out by trying to figure out what romantic love was by looking at the last 45 years of research on -- just the psychological research , and as it turns out , there 's a very specific group of things that happen when you fall in love . The first thing that happens is what I call -- a person begins to take on what I call , "" special meaning . "" As a truck driver once said to me , he said , "" The world had a new center , and that center was Mary Anne . "" George Bernard Shaw said it a little differently . He said , "" Love consists of overestimating the differences between one woman and another . "" And indeed , that 's what we do . ( Laughter ) And then you just focus on this person . You can list what you do n't like about them , but then you sweep that aside and focus on what you do . As Chaucer said , "" Love is blind . "" In trying to understand romantic love , I decided I would read poetry from all over the world , and I just want to give you one very short poem from eighth-century China , because it 's an almost perfect example of a man who is focused totally on a particular woman . It 's a little bit like when you are madly in love with somebody and you walk into a parking lot . Their car is different from every other car in the parking lot . Their wine glass at dinner is different from every other wine glass at the dinner party . And in this case , a man got hooked on a bamboo sleeping mat . And it goes like this . It 's by a guy called Yuan Chen : "" I can not bear to put away the bamboo sleeping mat . The night I brought you home , I watched you roll it out . "" He became hooked on a sleeping mat , probably because of elevated activity of dopamine in his brain , just like with you and me . But anyway , not only does this person take on special meaning , you focus your attention on them . You aggrandize them . But you have intense energy . As one Polynesian said , he said , "" I felt like jumping in the sky . "" You 're up all night . You 're walking till dawn . You feel intense elation when things are going well , mood swings into horrible despair when things are going poorly . Real dependence on this person . As one businessman in New York said to me , he said , "" Anything she liked , I liked . "" Simple . Romantic love is very simple . You become extremely sexually possessive . You know , if you 're just sleeping with somebody casually , you do n't really care if they 're sleeping with somebody else . But the moment you fall in love , you become extremely sexually possessive of them . I think that that is a Darwinian -- there 's a Darwinian purpose to this . The whole point of this is to pull two people together strongly enough to begin to rear babies as a team . But the main characteristics of romantic love are craving : an intense craving to be with a particular person , not just sexually , but emotionally . You 'd much rather -- it would be nice to go to bed with them , but you want them to call you on the telephone , to invite you out , et cetera . To tell you that they love you . The other main characteristic is motivation . The motor in your brain begins to crank , and you want this person . And last but not least , it is an obsession . When I put these people in the machine , before I put them in the MRI machine , I would ask them all kinds of questions . But my most important question was always the same . It was : "" What percentage of the day and night do you think about this person ? "" And indeed , they would say , "" All day . All night . I can never stop thinking about him or her . "" And then , the very last question I would ask them -- I would always have to work myself up to this question , because I am not a psychologist . I do n't work with people in any kind of traumatic situation . And my final question was always the same . I would say , "" Would you die for him or her ? "" And , indeed , these people would say "" Yes ! , "" as if I had asked them to pass the salt . I was just staggered by it . So we scanned their brains , looking at a photograph of their sweetheart and looking at a neutral photograph , with a distraction task in between . So we could find -- look at the same brain when it was in that heightened state and when it was in a resting state . And we found activity in a lot of brain regions . In fact , one of the most important was a brain region that becomes active when you feel the rush of cocaine . And indeed , that 's exactly what happens . I began to realize that romantic love is not an emotion . In fact , I had always thought it was a series of emotions , from very high to very low . But actually , it 's a drive . It comes from the motor of the mind , the wanting part of the mind , the craving part of the mind . The kind of mind -- part of the mind -- when you 're reaching for that piece of chocolate , when you want to win that promotion at work . The motor of the brain . It 's a drive . And in fact , I think it 's more powerful than the sex drive . You know , if you ask somebody to go to bed with you , and they say , "" No thank you , "" you certainly do n't kill yourself or slip into a clinical depression . But certainly , around the world , people who are rejected in love will kill for it . People live for love . They kill for love . They die for love . They have songs , poems , novels , sculptures , paintings , myths , legends . In over 175 societies , people have left their evidence of this powerful brain system . I have come to think it 's one of the most powerful brain systems on earth for both great joy and great sorrow . And I 've also come to think that it 's one of three , basically different brain systems that evolved from mating and reproduction . One is the sex drive : the craving for sexual gratification . W. H. Auden called it an "" intolerable neural itch , "" and indeed , that 's what it is . It keeps bothering you a little bit , like being hungry . The second of these three brain systems is romantic love : that elation , obsession of early love . And the third brain system is attachment : that sense of calm and security you can feel for a long-term partner . And I think that the sex drive evolved to get you out there , looking for a whole range of partners . You know , you can feel it when you 're just driving along in your car . It can be focused on nobody . I think romantic love evolved to enable you to focus your mating energy on just one individual at a time , thereby conserving mating time and energy . And I think that attachment , the third brain system , evolved to enable you to tolerate this human being -- ( Laughter ) -- at least long enough to raise a child together as a team . So with that preamble , I want to go into discussing the two most profound social trends . One of the last 10,000 years and the other -- certainly of the last 25 years -- that are going to have an impact on these three different brain systems : lust , romantic love and deep attachment to a partner . The first is women working , moving into the workforce . I 've looked at 150 -- 130 societies through the demographic yearbooks of the United Nations . And everywhere in the world , 129 out of 130 of them , women are not only moving into the job market -- sometimes very , very slowly , but they are moving into the job market -- and they are very slowly closing that gap between men and women in terms of economic power , health and education . It 's very slow . For every trend in -- on this planet , there 's a counter-trend . We all know of them , but nevertheless -- the old Arab saying . The Arabs say , "" The dogs may bark , but the caravan moves on . "" And , indeed , that caravan is moving on . Women are moving back into the job market . And I say back into the job market , because this is not new . For millions of years , on the grasslands of Africa , women commuted to work to gather their vegetables . They came home with 60 to 80 percent of the evening meal . The double income family was the standard . And women were regarded as just as economically , socially and sexually powerful as men . In short , we 're really moving forward to the past . Then , women's worst invention was the plow . With the beginning of plow agriculture , men's roles became extremely powerful . Women lost their ancient jobs as collectors , but then with the industrial revolution and the post-industrial revolution they 're moving back into the job market . In short , they are acquiring the status that they had a million years ago , 10,000 years ago , 100,000 years ago . We are seeing now one of the most remarkable traditions in the history of the human animal . And it 's going to have an impact . I generally give a whole lecture on the impact of women on the business community . I 'll only just say a couple of things , and then go on to sex and love . There 's a lot of gender differences ; anybody who thinks men and women are alike simply never had a boy and a girl child . I do n't know why it is that they want to think that men and women are alike . There 's much we have in common , but there 's a whole lot that we are not -- do not have in common . We are -- in the words of Ted Hughes , "" I think that we were built to be -- we 're like two feet . We need each other to get ahead . "" But we did not evolve to have the same brain . And we 're finding more and more and more gender differences in the brain . I 'll only just use a couple and then move on to sex and love . One of them is women's verbal ability . Women can talk . Women's ability to find the right word rapidly , basic articulation goes up in the middle of the menstrual cycle , when estrogen levels peak . But even at menstruation , they 're better than the average man . Women can talk . They 've been doing it for a million years ; words were women's tools . They held that baby in front of their face , cajoling it , reprimanding it , educating it with words . And , indeed , they 're becoming a very powerful force . Even in places like India and Japan , where women are not moving rapidly into the regular job market , they 're moving into journalism . And I think that the television is like the global campfire . We sit around it and it shapes our minds . Almost always , when I 'm on TV , the producers who call me , who negotiate what we 're going to say , is a woman . In fact , Solzhenitsyn once said , "" To have a great writer is to have another government . "" Today 54 percent of people who are writers in America are women . It 's one of many , many characteristics that women have that they will bring into the job market . They 've got incredible people skills , negotiating skills . They 're highly imaginative . We now know the brain circuitry of imagination , of long-term planning . They tend to be web thinkers . Because the female parts of the brain are better connected , they tend to collect more pieces of data when they think , put them into more complex patterns , see more options and outcomes . They tend to be contextual , holistic thinkers , what I call web thinkers . Men tend to -- and these are averages -- tend to get rid of what they regard as extraneous , focus on what they do , and move in a more step-by-step thinking pattern . They 're both perfectly good ways of thinking . We need both of them to get ahead . In fact , there 's many more male geniuses in the world . When the -- and there 's also many more male idiots in the world . ( Laughter ) When the male brain works well , it works extremely well . And I -- what I really think that we 're doing is , we 're moving towards a collaborative society , a society in which the talents of both men and women are becoming understood and valued and employed . But in fact , women moving into the job market is having a huge impact on sex and romance and family life . Foremost , women are starting to express their sexuality . I 'm always astonished when people come to me and say , "" Why is it that men are so adulterous ? "" And I say , "" Why do you think more men are adulterous than women ? "" "" Oh , well -- men are more adulterous ! "" And I say , "" Who do you think these men are sleeping with ? "" And -- basic math ! ( Laughter ) Anyway . In the Western world , little girls start -- women start sooner at sex , have more partners , express less remorse for the partners that they do , marry later , have fewer children , leave bad marriages in order to get good ones . We are seeing the rise of female sexual expression . And , indeed , once again we 're moving forward to the kind of sexual expression that we probably saw on the grasslands of Africa a million years ago , because this is the kind of sexual expression that we see in hunting and gathering societies today . We 're also returning to an ancient form of marriage equality . They 're now saying that the 21st century is going to be the century of what they call the "" symmetrical marriage , "" or the "" pure marriage , "" or the "" companionate marriage . "" This is a marriage between equals , moving forward to a pattern that is highly compatible with the ancient human spirit . We 're also seeing a rise of romantic love . 91 percent of American women and 86 percent of American men would not marry somebody who had every single quality they were looking for in a partner , if they were not in love with that person . People around the world , in a study of 37 societies , want to be in love with the person that they marry . Indeed , arranged marriages are on their way off this braid of human life . I even think that marriages might even become more stable because of the second great world trend . The first one being women moving into the job market , the second one being the aging world population . They 're now saying that in America , that middle age should be regarded as up to age 85 . Because in that highest age category of 76 to 85 , only -- as much as 40 percent of people have nothing really wrong with them . So we 're seeing there 's a real extension of middle age . And I looked -- for one of my books , I looked at divorce data in 58 societies . And as it turns out , the older you get , the less likely you are to divorce . So the divorce rate right now is stable in America , and it 's actually beginning to decline . It may decline some more . I would even say that with Viagra , estrogen replacement , hip replacements and the incredibly interesting women -- women have never been as interesting as they are now . Not at any time on this planet have women been so educated , so interesting , so capable . And so I honestly think that if there really was ever a time in human evolution when we have the opportunity to make good marriages , that time is now . However , there 's always kinds of complications in this . In these three brain systems : lust , romantic love and attachment -- do n't always go together . They can go together , by the way . That 's why casual sex is n't so casual . With orgasm you get a spike of dopamine . Dopamine 's associated with romantic love , and you can just fall in love with somebody who you 're just having casual sex with . With orgasm , then you get a real rush of oxytocin and vasopressin -- those are associated with attachment . This is why you can feel such a sense of cosmic union with somebody after you 've made love to them . But these three brain systems : lust , romantic love and attachment , are n ' t always connected to each other . You can feel deep attachment to a long-term partner while you feel intense romantic love for somebody else , while you feel the sex drive for people unrelated to these other partners . In short , we 're capable of loving more than one person at a time . In fact , you can lie in bed at night and swing from deep feelings of attachment for one person to deep feelings of romantic love for somebody else . It 's as if there 's a committee meeting going on in your head as you are trying to decide what to do . So I do n't think , honestly , we 're an animal that was built to be happy ; we are an animal that was built to reproduce . I think the happiness we find , we make . And I think , however , we can make good relationships with each other . So I want to conclude with two things . I want to conclude with a worry . I have a worry -- and with a wonderful story . The worry is about antidepressants . Over 100 million prescriptions of antidepressants are written every year in the United States . And these drugs are going generic . They are seeping around the world . I know one girl who 's been on these antidepressants , serotonin-enhancing -- SSRI , serotonin-enhancing antidepressants -- since she was 13 . She 's 23 . She 's been on them ever since she was 13 . I 've got nothing against people who take them short term , when they 're going through something perfectly horrible . They want to commit suicide or kill somebody else . I would recommend it . But more and more people in the United States are taking them long term . And indeed , what these drugs do is raise levels of serotonin . And by raising levels of serotonin , you suppress the dopamine circuit . Everybody knows that . Dopamine is associated with romantic love . Not only do they suppress the dopamine circuit , but they kill the sex drive . And when you kill the sex drive , you kill orgasm . And when you kill orgasm , you kill that flood of drugs associated with attachment . The things are connected in the brain . And when you tamper with one brain system , you 're going to tamper with another . I 'm just simply saying that a world without love is a deadly place . So now -- ( Applause ) -- thank you . I want to end with a story . And then , just a comment . I 've been studying romantic love and sex and attachment for 30 years . I 'm an identical twin ; I am interested in why we 're all alike . Why you and I are alike , why the Iraqis and the Japanese and the Australian Aborigines and the people of the Amazon River are all alike . And about a year ago , an Internet dating service , Match . com , came to me and asked me if I would design a new dating site for them . I said , "" I do n't know anything about personality . You know ? I do n't know . Do you think you 've got the right person ? "" They said , "" Yes . "" It got me thinking about why it is that you fall in love with one person rather than another . That 's my current project ; it will be my next book . There 's all kinds of reasons that you fall in love with one person rather than another . Timing is important . Proximity is important . Mystery is important . You fall in love with somebody who 's somewhat mysterious , in part because mystery elevates dopamine in the brain , probably pushes you over that threshold to fall in love . You fall in love with somebody who fits within what I call your "" love map , "" an unconscious list of traits that you build in childhood as you grow up . And I also think that you become -- gravitate to certain people , actually , with somewhat complementary brain systems . And that 's what I 'm now contributing to this . But I want to tell you a story about -- to illustrate . I 've been carrying on here about the biology of love . I wanted to show you a little bit about the culture of it , too -- the magic of it . It 's a story that was told to me by somebody who had heard it just from one of the -- probably a true story . It was a graduate student at -- I 'm at Rutgers and my two colleagues -- Art Aron is at SUNY Stony Brook . That 's where we put our people in the MRI machine . And this graduate student was madly in love with another graduate student , and she was not in love with him . And they were all at a conference in Beijing . And he knew from our work that if you go and do something very novel with somebody , you can drive up the dopamine in the brain . And perhaps trigger this brain system for romantic love . ( Laughter ) So he decided he 'd put science to work , and he invited this girl to go off on a rickshaw ride with him . And sure enough -- I 've never been in one , but apparently they go all around the buses and the trucks and it 's crazy and it 's noisy and it 's exciting . And he figured that this would drive up the dopamine , and she would fall in love with him . So off they go and she 's squealing and squeezing him and laughing and having a wonderful time . An hour later they get down off of the rickshaw , and she throws her hands up and she says , "" Was n ' t that wonderful ? "" And , "" Was n ' t that rickshaw driver handsome ! "" ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) There 's magic to love ! But I will end by saying that millions of years ago , we evolved three basic drives : the sex drive , romantic love and attachment to a long-term partner . These circuits are deeply embedded in the human brain . They 're going to survive as long as our species survives on what Shakespeare called "" this mortal coil . "" Thank you . ( Applause ) </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
448	5 miles from Garthyfog .... The Mawddach rises to the north of the Rhobell Fawr Mountain and flows through Ganllwyd , Llanelltyd and Penmaenpool and on through its long estuary to the sea at Barmouth . Upper reaches of the River Mawddach On the Mawddach , as with most other rivers in Gwynedd , there is a marked contrast between the upper reaches - steep and rocky , requiring great care in wet weather - and the gentler lower reaches , some of them quite short , where the course meanders through meadows or woodland . Bontwernddu pool on the River Wnion The Mawddach's largest tributary is the Wnion , a very fine sea trout river , while the smaller River Eden is also a valuable game fishery . Following a major pollution in 1984 , when 2000 adult salmon and sea trout were killed along with many thousands of juvenile fish , The Mawddach Trust was formed to restock the river from a purpose-built hatchery . The Mawddach and its tributaries contain neither grayling nor coarse fish . As a result , coarse angling in this part of Wales is confined to stillwaters . Insect life Apart from some early season olives and the ubiquitous iron blue and blue-winged olive , it is to the sedge flies , stoneflies and , in particular , terrestrial insects that river trout fishers should turn their attention on the Gwynedd rivers , and the Mawddach is no exception . Season dates and byelaws Salmon and sea trout : 20 March to 17 October . Fly and spinner only from 20 March to 15 April and from 7 October to 17 October . Trout ( non-migratory ) : 3 March to 30 September , except for downstream of the following points : Mawddach , Llenelltyd Bridge ( A470 ) Wnion , Dr Williams' School footbridge below Dolgellau . On these lower reaches the trout-fishing season dates are 31 May to 30 September . Note : Please check the Environment Agency Wales latest edition byelaws booklet before you go fishing , as changes may have occurred since our information was last updated .	Information/Explanation
351	"A Country Diary : 14 The Idler's Editor , Tom Hodgkinson , has retired to a Devon farmhouse to write a book . Here 's the fourteenth part of his diary . I 'VE BEEN up in the vegetable patch a lot lately . I consider it to be a freedom-seeking , anarchistic activity and it 's largely enjoyable . It 's the first step on the road to self-sufficiency . However , there are two downsides , one is the sheer amount of hard graft and the other is the expense . Seeds , for starters , cost anything from one to two pounds per packet . I made the mistake of spilling my seed a little too promiscuously with some of the early sowings . I must have planted , for example , around 150 lettuces where there was room for only 15 to grow . That meant throwing away many many seedlings , which seemed like an awful waste . I 've also had to buy planks to build the raised beds , that was a cost of about fifty quid . Then there 's been the wheelbarrow , fork , spade , bamboo canes , bark chipping , black plastic sheeting , Growmore fertiliser , watering cans , sprayer , twine , little plastic pegs for showing you what 's growing where , black plastic sheeting for laying on the paths , bark chippings , gardening books , pencil , weedkiller ( organic ! ) , lime for liming the soil ( whatever that means ) . Luckily I live on a farm so the cowshit is free . Then there 's the enormous amount of time the whole project has taken . If you factor that in , these are going to be the most expensive potatoes ever eaten . I was not prepared either for how complicated the whole thing is . I was given a book called ' The Vegetable and Herb Expert ' to help me learn the ways of the veg , but it has confused me enormously . Every vegetable seems to be different . They require different kinds of soil , light , and watering . Some of them have to be grown indoors and transplanted . Some , thank God , are sown directly into the soil ( which has to be raked to fine "" tilth "" first ) . I got everything the wrong way round and grew the carrots from seed on my windowsill and then transplanted them . You 're supposed to have a greenhouse and also things called cloches . Then I found out that for some vegetables you 're supposed to grow them in a special seed bed , and then transplant them somewhere else when they start shooting through ! I mean , why bother moving them ? Well . I have now planted radishes , runner beans , tomatoes , carrots , parsnips , beetroots , leeks , kale , garlic , onions , salad onions , one single courgette plant ( donated by a neighbour ) , lettuces and a whole bed of potatoes which I painstakingly DOUBLE DUG ( yes , just when you think you 've got the hang of single digging they spring this on you - DOUBLE DIGGING ! ) and filled with cow manure . The radishes are doing well . I was complaining about the amount of expense and hard graft involved in all this to Penny Rimbaud , CRASS founder and experienced vegetable gardener . "" But no ! "" he said . "" It does n ' t have to be . It can be cheap and easy . It 's called permaculture . And there are some gardeners who do n't even believe in digging ! | "" Hmm , I thought . I 'd like to meet them . So I have started looking into permaculture , and it does indeed look fantastic . It 's all about using nature to make your life easier , letting nature do its thing in terms of planting flowers which keep pests down and the like . Rimbaud said also that he is of the "" just bung it in and see "" school which I also like the sound of . Permaculture is also all about sharing seeds and plants , thus cutting down on the expense and allowing you to avoid becoming a victim of the gardening industry . Apparently , the Henry Doubleday Institute runs seed swap programmes and also produces natural old-fashioned varieties that have been all but destroyed by the big commercial seed companies . The only permaculture-type thing I have done so far is to plant marigolds near the tomatoes . Apparently they keep slugs away or something . But expect more permaculture tips soon , as and when I learn them . About six weeks ago , I planted around 40 seed potatoes at neat intervals and they all appeared to be springing up beautifully . I have just showed them proudly to Alan , my mentor in this gardening experiment . He was initially impressed , but then looked a little closer . "" The leaves are looking a bit yellow , "" he said . I looked at them and had to admit he was right . We looked up "" yellowing leaves "" in my book . Definitely not good . Could be a bad case of Blackleg . "" Strikes early in the season , "" my book said . "" Treatment : none . Lift and burn all plants . "" More work . More expense . © 1993-2005 The Idler | Designed by Noble Savage"	Opinion/Argumentation
1062	"The Commission shall not be regarded as the servant or agent of the Crown , or as having any status , immunity or privilege of the Crown , nor shall its members or employees be regarded as civil servants , nor its property as property of , or held on behalf of , the Crown . General powers 2 The Commission may do anything which appears to it to be necessary or expedient for the purposes of , or in connection with , the exercise of its functions ; and without prejudice to that generality the Commission may in particular - ( a ) acquire and dispose of land and other property ; and ( b ) enter into contracts . Membership 3 ( 1 ) The Commission shall consist of the following members appointed by Her Majesty on the recommendation of the Scottish Ministers - ( a ) a member appointed to serve as convener ; ( b ) a minimum of three members , who have such qualifications , training and experience as may be prescribed by regulations , appointed to serve as medical commissioners ; and ( c ) other members who meet such other requirements as may be so prescribed . ( 2 ) The person who holds the post of chief officer of the Commission shall - ( a ) be a member ex officio of the Commission ; and ( b ) cease automatically to hold office as such member on ceasing to hold that post . ( 3 ) The Scottish Ministers may , after consulting such persons , or groups of persons , as they consider appropriate , by order - ( a ) amend sub-paragraph ( 1 ) above by - ( i ) adding to that sub-paragraph categories of members ; or ( ii ) removing from it a category which is for the time being set out there ; ( b ) specify the number ( including a minimum or maximum number ) of - ( i ) the members of the Commission ; or ( ii ) any category of member , that may be appointed under sub-paragraph ( 1 ) above ; ( c ) specify the maximum term of appointment ( including any reappointment ) of a member appointed under that sub-paragraph ; or ( d ) amend sub-paragraph ( 2 ) above by adding to it further posts , the holders of which shall - ( i ) be members ex officio of the Commission ; and ( ii ) cease to be such members on ceasing to hold such posts . Terms of office etc. 4 ( 1 ) The provisions of this paragraph apply as respects a person appointed as member under paragraph 3 ( 1 ) above . ( 2 ) Subject to the provisions of this schedule , the appointment shall be on such terms and conditions as the Scottish Ministers may determine . ( 3 ) Subject to section 23 of the Ethical Standards in Public Life etc. ( Scotland ) Act 2000 ( asp 7 ) , a person holds and vacates office as member in accordance with the terms of appointment of that person . ( 4 ) A person may resign office as member at any time by notice to the Scottish Ministers . Eligibility for reappointment 5 Subject to paragraph 3 ( 3 ) ( c ) above , a person who ceases , otherwise than by virtue of section 23 of the Ethical Standards in Public Life etc. ( Scotland ) Act 2000 ( asp 7 ) , to be a member of the Commission is eligible for reappointment . Remuneration , pensions , allowances etc. 6 The Commission shall pay - ( a ) to its members ( and to the members of its committees and sub-committees who are not members of the Commission ) such remuneration and allowances - ( i ) on such terms ; and ( ii ) subject to such conditions , as the Scottish Ministers may determine ; ( b ) to , or in respect of , persons who have been a member of it ( or such members of committees and sub-committees as are mentioned in paragraph ( a ) above ) such pensions , allowances and gratuities - ( i ) on such terms ; and ( ii ) subject to such conditions , as the Scottish Ministers may determine ; or ( c ) to any person who ceases , other than on the expiry of a term of office , to be a member of it , such compensation as the Scottish Ministers may determine . Appointment etc. of chief officer and other staff 7 ( 1 ) Subject to sub-paragraphs ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) below , the Commission - ( a ) shall appoint a chief officer ; and ( b ) may appoint such other staff as it considers appropriate , on such terms and conditions as it may , with the approval of the Scottish Ministers , determine . ( 2 ) A member of the Commission may not be appointed as a member of its staff . ( 3 ) The Commission shall obtain the approval of the Scottish Ministers before appointing a chief officer . ( 4 ) The Commission may pay to the members of its staff , including its chief officer , ( referred to in this paragraph collectively as "" employees "" ) such remuneration and allowances as the Scottish Ministers may determine . ( 5 ) The Commission may - ( a ) pay , or make arrangements for the payment of ; ( b ) make payments towards the provision of ; and ( c ) provide and maintain schemes ( whether contributory or not ) for the payment of , such pensions , allowances and gratuities to or in respect of such of its employees , or former employees , as the Scottish Ministers may determine . ( 6 ) The reference in sub-paragraph ( 5 ) above to pensions , allowances and gratuities includes a reference to pensions , allowances and gratuities by way of compensation for loss of employment or reduction in remuneration . ( 7 ) A determination under sub-paragraph ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) above may make different provision for different cases or descriptions of case . Regulations as to proceedings and delegation of functions 8 ( 1 ) Subject to sub-paragraph ( 2 ) below , regulations may make provision as to - ( a ) the appointment of and composition of committees and sub-committees of the Commission ( including committees and sub-committees which consist of or include persons who are not members of the Commission ) ; ( b ) the procedure of the Commission and of any of its committees or sub-committees ( including the constitution of a quorum and the validation of proceedings in the event of vacancies or of defects in appointment ) ; ( c ) the exercise of functions by any such committee or sub-committee ; ( d ) the delegation by the Commission of any of its functions to any of its committees , sub-committees , members or staff ; and ( e ) what functions the Commission shall not so delegate . ( 2 ) Before making regulations under sub-paragraph ( 1 ) above , the Scottish Ministers shall consult such persons , or groups of persons , as they consider appropriate . Accounts 9 The following provisions of the National Health Service ( Scotland ) Act 1978 ( c . 29 ) shall continue to apply to the Commission as they apply to a Special Health Board - ( a ) section 85 ( which makes provision for payment of funds by the Scottish Ministers towards expenditure attributable to performance of functions by the Board ) ; ( b ) section 85A ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) ( which imposes corresponding financial duties on the Board ) ; and ( c ) section 86 ( which provides for the keeping , transmission to Scottish Ministers and auditing , of accounts ) ."	Legal
1533	The IRS has allowed tax benefits to people by way of the 401k for many years now . That 's why 401k plans have become the largest employer-sponsored retirement account type . If you are looking for rules for 401k distributions , you have either reached time to retire or want to tap the 401k for some much needed money . Regardless of the reason , you should be careful to abide by the 401k distribution rules , which are different for early 401k withdrawals and those made at the age 591 ⁄ 2 or older . As for early 401k withdrawals , they have the likelihood of causing two taxable situations on the individual's tax return . Aside from paying Federal income tax on the sum withdrawn , an early withdrawal in most cases also causes penalties of 10 % on the distribution sum . However , there is a 401k hardship rule , also applied to 403b plans and 457 plans , which makes allowances for early 401k withdrawals in certain situations . They include expenses for medical care , costs of the purchase of a principal residence , educational fees , funeral expenses and certain repair expenses . Do not forget that the abovementioned exceptions just specify conditions when you may get access to your 401k assets , but not represent exceptions to penalties or tax . The penalties wo n't apply if distributions before reaching age 591 ⁄ 2 are effected in the certain situations . They include payments made to the beneficiary in result of the death of the participant , disability of the participant , and a number of others . Meanwhile , you have to realize that although the IRS makes provisions for early distributions , it may happen that your employer's plan does n't allow premature distributions because of the added costs incurred . We remind that a 401k withdrawal penalty wo n't apply to participants who separate service from their employer in or after the year of turning 55 ( in the meantime , for qualified public safety employees that age is 50 ) . Since 401k distribution rules provide that you can start taking a 401k early withdrawal after turning 55 only from your current employer , it makes good financial sense to roll older 401k 's into your current employer before getting retired . If your want to withdraw 401k assets at retirement , you can choose from three options , assuming that you 're at least 591 ⁄ 2 and no longer employed : take a lump sum , leave your plan assets with your employer , or rollover 401k to IRA . 1 Trackbacks For This Post	Instruction
259	Modern Languages S1 / S2 Course All pupils at the Royal High School follow a common course in either French or German in S1 and S2 . It is expected that all pupils continue with the foreign language they started in the primary school . The Modern Languages dept has regular contact with each of our associated primaries and we endeavour to acknowledge prior learning at all times . Self and family House and home Hobbies and interests My daily routine Meals / food and drink School and school subjects Travel and transport My town and home area In addition , pupils will learn about the culture and background of the foreign country . Use is made of listening posts , TV and video , internet and the department benefits from having a foreign language assistant from both France and Germany each year . Teaching takes place in whole class groups , which are , where possible , set according to ability and aptitude . The foreign languages assistants can work with smaller groups and can also work within the classroom alongside the class teacher . Pupils are assessed regularly and their progress is recorded as a progression within the 5-14 national guidelines . Pupils can anticipate an assessment at the end of each unit or topic which will allow both themselves and their teacher to measure the progress they have made . Tests are made in all skill areas - reading , listening , speaking and writing .	Promotion
1267	Like many of its neighbors , Slovakia's telecommunications system has improved over the years , becoming more modern and more reliable . Rapid growth in the mobile cellular sector has also occurred . According to IndexMundi.com , three operators provide cellular services in Slovakia . In July 2000 , Slovak Telecom Inc. ( now known as T-com ) was privatized with 51 percent ownership by Deutsche Telecom AG and 49 percent remaining under the Slovak government's control . Competitors include : Orange , UPC , SWAN , Dial Telecom , and many others . The number of mobile subscribers outnumbers landline users with over 5.7 million mobile users compared to just over 994,000 landline users . Three international exchanges facilitate international calling from Slovakia . While it 's easy enough to dial an international phone number from Slovakia , using national networks is n't the only choice available . Many Slovakians use international calling cards , VoIP systems , and even international conference calling plans to stay connected with their friends , family members , and colleagues located outside of the country . Each options has its own pros and cons . For example , while calling cards often have cheap rates , they are also clumsy to use . Sound quality is often questionable . Sound quality is also an issue with some VoIP calling options as dropouts and echo noises are common . Some international conference calling plans have minimum fees which may or may not be worthwhile . Fortunately , pay as you go plans are also available . If you need to call other countries from Slovakia , a pay as you go international conference call using a traditional telephone network is a high quality , low expense choice . Though they are designed for conference calls , you can invite just one or two callers if desired . Several tools such as MP3 call recording and moderator dial out add to the appeal of using an international conference call as an alternative to expensive international long distance calls from Slovakia . International Conference Call Features	Information/Explanation
1685	"In their quest for survival , plants have evolved to produce an amazing variety of chemical compounds known as secondary metabolites . These chemicals often serve to deter herbivores , protect against pathogens and neighbors , or mitigate the effects of radiation , among numerous other uses . Interestingly , many of these chemicals react with human bodies in specific ways , ranging from organ failure and death to reactions that inspire lifesaving pharmaceuticals . The following is a list of plants that , amazingly , affect the brains and mental states of the humans who ingest them . Dennis E. Anderson Peyote is a small cactus found only in the Chihuahuan Desert of southern Texas and northern Mexico . The tops of the cactus can be dried to form "" mescal buttons , "" which are well known for their hallucinogenic effects and contain the alkaloid mescaline , among others . The hallucinatory effects vary greatly among individuals and even for a particular individual from one drug experience to the next . The variations seem to reflect such factors as the mood and personality of the individual and the setting in which the drug is administered . Hallucinations are usually visual , less often auditory . Side effects include nausea and vomiting . Peyote , like most other hallucinogenic drugs , is not considered to be addictive and is reputed by cultists and some observers to promote morality and ethical behavior among the Native Americans who use it ritually . Courtesy of Prairie Plant Systems Grown all over the world , cannabis ( marijuana ) is probably the most-widespread plant with psychoactive properties . Known for its characteristic leaves , the plant is used in religious practices in India and Africa ( and probably elsewhere ) and is sometimes used illicitly in the United States and Europe , though its legal status is changing in many places . The active ingredient , tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) , is present in all parts of both the male and female plants but is most concentrated in the flowering tops of the female . These buds are usually dried and crushed and put into pipes or formed into cigarettes ( joints ) for smoking but can also be added to foods and beverages . Psychological effects tend to predominate , with the user commonly experiencing a mild euphoria and alterations in vision and judgment that result in distortions of time and space . Acute intoxication may occasionally induce visual hallucinations , anxiety , depression , paranoid reactions , and psychoses lasting four to six hours . Marijuana's physical effects include reddening of the eyes , dryness of the mouth and throat , moderate increase in rapidity of the heartbeat , tightness of the chest ( if the drug is smoked ) , drowsiness , unsteadiness , and muscular incoordination . Hashish , a more-powerful form of the drug , is made by collecting and drying the plant's resin and is about eight times as strong as the marijuana typically smoked in the United States . Wayne Lukas – Group IV – The National Audubon Society Collection / Photo Researchers Although not well known in the West , betel chewing is a habit of an estimated one-tenth of the world's population , and betel is considered to be the fourth most-common psychoactive drug in the world ( following nicotine , alcohol , and caffeine ) . Betel nuts grow on the areca palm and are cultivated in India , Sri Lanka , Thailand , Malaysia , and the Philippines . For chewing , a betel quid is formed by wrapping a small piece of the areca palm seed ( the betel nut ) in a leaf of the unrelated betel pepper plant , along with a pellet of slaked lime ( calcium hydroxide ) . Betel chewing releases a number of addictive alkaloids that cause sensations of mild euphoria , and regular users often have red-stained teeth and lips . Although it is important in many cultural traditions of southern Asia , betel chewing is linked to a number of serious health problems , including oral and esophageal cancer , and is of growing concern for health officials . Teun Spaans Jimsonweed grows throughout much of North and South America . It is a weedy annual plant with striking white tubular flowers and spiky seed pods . The leaves and seeds contain potent alkaloids ( hyoscamine and hyoscine ) that cause hallucinations . Used ceremonially by a number of indigenous peoples , jimsonweed acts as a deliriant and can produce intense spiritual visions . However , it is highly dangerous , and careless use can easily result in fatalities . Users often report terrifying hallucinations and paranoid delusions under its influence and may experience prolonged side effects such as blurred vision after its use . Many do not try it a second time . W.H. Hodge Coca is a tropical shrub native to certain regions of Peru , Bolivia , and Ecuador . Its leaves contain the alkaloid cocaine and have been chewed for centuries by the Indians of Peru and Bolivia for pleasure or in order to withstand strenuous working conditions , hunger , and thirst . However , the leaves can also be processed into a potent white crystalline powder that is injected , smoked , or otherwise consumed . When ingested in small amounts , cocaine produces feelings of well-being and euphoria along with decreased appetite , relief from fatigue , and increased mental alertness . Cocaine is habit-forming , and , when taken in larger amounts and upon prolonged and repeated use , cocaine produces depression , anxiety , irritability , sleep problems , chronic fatigue , mental confusion , and convulsions . A toxic psychosis can develop involving paranoid delusions and disturbing tactile hallucinations in which users feel insects crawling under their skin . Cocaine abuse , which had been a marginal drug problem throughout much of the 20th century , grew alarmingly in the late 20th century in several countries , and cocaine became responsible for a markedly increased proportion of drug-induced deaths ."	Information/Explanation
1177	We have an exciting opportunity for a strong midweight 3D Designer to join a brand experience agency who are shaping up to be one of the best 3D agencies around . This is an amazing chance for the right designer to work on some seriously awesome projects . You will be given the freedom to be as creative as you can be so you must be a passionate and ideas led designer who is happy to be involved in all aspects of a project . You will be proficient in using C4D , Vectorworks and able to hand-sketch excellently . You must have 4-5 years previous events / retail experience for this role . It 's important for this agency that you 're a forward thinker , somebody who will think outside the box and deliver ground-breaking ideas . Interested ? Apply with your cv and portfolio .	Promotion
331	Home Improving Services Selected Cases - Health Selected Investigations Completed August 2001 - November 2001 Part I , Case no . E. 2242 / 98-99 Chapter 1 : Hospital , Community Health and Ambulance Trusts Case No. E. 2242 / 98-99 - Inadequate arrangements for care following discharge ; inadequate response to request for independent review Complaint against : Lincoln and Louth NHS Trust Summary of case Mrs P was treated by the Trust for a broken hip following a fall at home in April 1997 . Her son , Mr L , complained that , despite the family's concerns that she was becoming increasingly confused , Mrs P was discharged without a psychiatric assessment . The Ombudsman's professional assessors concluded that Mrs P's pre-discharge assessment was adequate ; her discharge was appropriately planned ; and the necessary support for her discharge home was put in place . The Ombudsman did not uphold this aspect of the complaint . Mr L also complained about the Trust's handling of two requests he made for independent review ( IR ) . The Ombudsman concluded that the Trust did not deal adequately with either request . They failed to refer the first to the convener , as required by national guidance , and instead attempted further local resolution . When this was unsuccessful and Mr L made a second request for IR , the Trust failed to respond because of staffing difficulties and procedural weaknesses . This aspect of the complaint was upheld . The Trust apologised to Mr L and confirmed that they had taken steps to improve complaint handling procedures .	Legal
695	Let the Faeries in all their wisdom answer questions you have about life and future . The full colour book reveals the meanings of the 52 magic message cards and how to lay them out , as well as faerie customs and rituals that have survived since time immemorial . Each of the cards are beautifully illustrated and hold a unique fairy message . RRP £ 10 . 99 52 Cards & Book £ 10 . 99 This product is listed within Oracle and Divination Decks	Promotion
780	Molecular and Cellular mechanisms underpinning Vascular Calcification and Angiogenesis Vascular calcification is a common complication of many diseases including atherosclerosis , diabetes , renal disease , hypertension , vein graft failure and calciphylaxis . Recent studies have shown that there is a strong association between the presence of vascular calcification and adverse clinical events such as myocardial infarction and stroke . However , little is known about how the deposition of mineral in vessels is controlled . We have shown that vascular pericytes have multi-lineage potential and can differentiate into osteoblasts and chondrocytes in vitro and in vivo . We have also shown that these cells can deposit a calcified matrix resembling that found in calcified atherosclerotic plaques , suggesting that pericytes may mediate , at least in part , vascular calcification . We have recently demonstrated that several genes that are implicated in the pathological calcification of arteries , namely matrix Gla protein , Axl receptor tyrosine kinase and HtrA1 serine protease are all differentially expressed during pericyte differentiation . We are currently using molecular , cellular and biochemical approaches to elucidate the mechanisms by which each of these proteins regulates calcification . In time , this integrated programme of research will provide important insights into the pathogenesis of vascular calcification and may identify potential targets for the therapeutic manipulation of this event . Angiogenesis is the formation of new blood vessels from an existing vascular bed . It is of fundamental importance in many physiological and pathological conditions , including embryonic development , wound healing , atherosclerosis , diabetic retinopathy , psoriasis and tumour growth and metastasis . Angiogenesis is a complex process involving changes in endothelial cell phenotype , extracellular matrix remodelling and stabilisation of the newly formed blood vessels . We are currently employing a multidisciplinary approach to define the roles of specific angiogenic factors and matrix proteins in regulating endothelial cell-pericyte interactions that are crucial for vessel stabilisation . We aim to translate this work into the development of novel anti-angiogenic and pro-angiogenic strategies for the treatment of diseases characterised by abnormal vascularisation . Combining the strengths of UMIST and The Victoria University of Manchester The University of Manchester :: Disclaimer | Privacy | Copyright notice | Accessibility | Feedback | Contact us	Information/Explanation
1094	Odyssey Papers 48 An Iron Cannon Salvaged from the Marquise de Tourny , Western English Channel Nico Brinck Ordnance Specialist , Terschelling , Netherlands The wreck of the Marquise de Tourny was discovered in the western English Channel in 2008 by Odyssey Marine Exploration and subjected to a ferrous metal FADE survey in 2009 . The site is 80m deep and 100km southeast of Plymouth . The presence of 25 iron cannon combined with discovery of the ship's name and date embossed onto its bronze bell , La Marquise de Tourny ' 1744 ' , identified the wreck as the remains of an armed privateer built in Bordeaux and lost during the War of the Austrian Succession . The corsair sank around the mid-18th century . An unknown European organisation is believed to have salvaged the cannon from the wreck . It was subsequently found in a coastal scrap yard and the author of this paper notified . The gun is incised with fleur de lys comparable to those present on a swivel gun recovered from the wreck in 2008 and is identified as deriving from the Marquise de Tourny . At 242cm in length and with a bore diameter of 10 . 5cm , the gun is an 8-pounder of French origin . The cannon's salvage reflects the impossibility of supervizing and protecting historical shipwrecks located outside terriorial waters from non-authorized access , and underlines how essential it is to record and sample at risk underwater cultural heritage of international importance . © Odyssey Marine Exploration , 2015 1 . Introduction The author was recently made aware of an iron cannon salvaged from a wreck believed to be the Marquise de Tourny , a French privateer built in 1744 and lost in the late 1740s or early 1750s in the Western English Channel ( Cunningham Dobson , 2011 ) . The gun was made available for recording ( Fig. 1 ) . The cannon can be identified as an 8-pounder on the basis of its 10 . 5cm-diameter bore . It was missing its trunnions and muzzle . Further minor damage was visible . Simple ornamental rings divide the cannon into three parts : breech and first reinforce , second reinforce , and chase ( Fig. 2 ) . On the first reinforce an astragal ring with fillets marks the end of the vent field , and a similar set of rings is positioned on the neck between the muzzle and the chase ( Fig. 3 ) . A notable reduction of thickness was measured at the reinforces . Except two fleurs de lys located at the beginning of the first reinforce and three-quarters of the way along the second reinforce , no further marks were identified ( Figs. 7-8 ) . 2 . Historical Background When France started to develop a navy in the first half of the 17th century , few local foundries were capable of casting a strong iron cannon . The iron district of Perigord produced guns and even exported them , but many failed test firings ( Klein , 1965 : 218 ) . By then the Dutch had already successfully established iron foundries in Sweden , and guns from there soon found their way onto the Amsterdam arms market and onwards to France . By 1674 the first regulations regarding standards for cannon The key preserved dimensions are ( Fig. 2 ) : Breech : 19cm Barrel ( forward of the breech ) : 242cm Th . at the vent field : 37cm Th . at the muzzle astragal : 21 . 5cm Bore Diam . 10.5 cm Fig. 1 . The iron cannon discarded in a salvage yard dump . Photo : Nico Brinck . © Odyssey Marine Exploration , 2015 ; www.shipwreck.net Odyssey Marine Exploration Papers 48 ( 2015 ) Fig. 2 . The iron cannon discarded in a salvage yard dump . Length measurements in cm . Photo : Nico Brinck . appeared in French Royal Docklands management regulations ( Boudriot , 1996 ) . From time to time the regulations changed ( not unlike the English ' Establishments ' ) and new standards were fixed for French sea ordnance . Very little is known about cannon used by the French merchant navy . Foundries probably enjoyed greater independence in gun shape and size compared to orders for the fighting navy . By the mid-18th century , when the Marquise de Tourny was active , the dimensions of a gun for a royal ship , naval or privateer , the so called ' pièces légitimes ' were : circumference at the vent 11 calibres ; forward of the trunnions 9 calibres ; and at the chase astragal 7 calibres ( the diameter of the bore is one calibre ) . The centre of the trunnions had to be positioned at 3 / 7th of the length of the gun ( excluding the breech ) ( Boudriot , 1996 ) . All thickness measurements of the salvaged 8-pounder adhere to these regulations , and the center of the trunnions differs by only a few centimetres from the standard . Further , this piece exhibits two fleurs de lys . A third one was probably originally engraved onto the muzzle swell , but the gun is broken at this point so that about 15cm of the muzzle is missing . The armament of a ship could change over the years . Generally a royal ship would receive new cannon when fitted out after launching . However , during her service damaged and worn cannon would be replaced on an as needed basis , and not always with identical pieces . After a long career the armament could be mixed in appearance , if not in calibre . A comparable ship to the Marquise de Tourny is the Machault , a French frigate lost in 1760 down the River Restigouche in Canada ( Bryce , 1984 ) . Two of her cannon were salvaged , including a 12-pounder produced in France and engraved three times with the royal fleur de lys . The second cannon is a Swedish Finspong gun , most likely bought in Amsterdam . This gun does not feature the fleur de lys , but rather the anchors' symbol of the French navy . The Machault cannon are not comparable to the Marquise de Tourny's 8-pounder . A French 8-pounder is known from Valletta , Malta , however , where it stands in front of the Auberge de Castilia , and exhibits almost the same dimensions and shape as the gun from the English Channel ( Fig. 9 ) . The rings and trunnions are all set in the same place , its trunnions are still © Odyssey Marine Exploration , 2015 ; www.shipwreck.net Odyssey Marine Exploration Papers 48 ( 2015 ) conical and the length is 258 . 5cm , which may also have been the length of the gun in question . Regulations preferred a length of 256cm for an 8-pounder , which is close to the length of the Valletta gun . After 1766 the regulations demanded shorter guns for the navy and trunnions were always straight cylinders . Thus , the English Channel cannon and the Valletta piece both date to the earlier half of the 18th century . The Channel 8-pounder fits very comfortably with the timeframe of the privateering actions of the Marquise de Tourny ( Cunningham Dobson , 2011 : 98-101 ) . 3 . The Marquise de Tourny The wreck of the Marquise de Tourny ( designated as Site 33c ) was discovered by Odyssey Marine Exploration in 2008 , 100km southeast of Plymouth , at a depth of around 80m in the western English Channel ( Cunningham Dobson , 2011 ) . A pre-disturbance survey was conducted , including the recording of surface features and the production of a photomosaic . The presence of a blue glass flaçon bottle and fleur de lys decoration along an iron swivel gun suggested a possible French nationality for the vessel . The discovery of the ship's bronze bell , inscribed with the name La Marquise de Tourny and the date of 1744 , confirmed that Site 33c was a Bordeaux-based privateer . Other than dense concretions surrounding iron ballast and cannon , the wreck is poorly preserved in shallow sediments , compounded by trawler damage . The survey revealed a spread of 25 iron cannon intermixed with 13 large concreted masses ( 0 . 85 x 0 . 25m to 3.5 x 3 . 0m ) , some of which cover areas of 2-10 square meters and appear to consist of approximately 1m-long cylindrical iron concretions . A minimum of 167 linear concretions are visible on the site's surface , although the merging of concretions and unseen stratigraphy severely complicated identification . The total volume of ballast ingots may have been closer to 500-600 pieces . Some red galley brick fragments are present , but no potsherds . No visible wooden ship structure survives , other than minor sections of timbers in shallow pockets of sediment and gravel . The site offered no visible indication as to which part of the wreck signifies the bow or stern . The shipwreck measures approximately 35 x 25m . Taking into account the number of cannon present , the wreck may be interpreted as the remains of a moderately armed 25-gun sailing vessel . Conservation identified a recovered cannon as a halfpounder swivel gun ( L. 85 . 5cm , bore Diam . 4 . 0cm ) . As with the salvaged cannon in question , the swivel gun's first and second reinforces featured a single incised fleur de lys , which were the only markings present ( other than a Fig. 3 . Full-length view of La Marquise de Tourny's salvaged 8-pounder . Photo : Nico Brinck . Fig. 4 . Detail of the cascable and button of the salvaged 8-pounder . Photo : Nico Brinck . Fig. 5 . Detail of the cascable and button of the salvaged 8-pounder . Photo : Nico Brinck . © Odyssey Marine Exploration , 2015 ; www.shipwreck.net Odyssey Marine Exploration Papers 48 ( 2015 ) Fig. 6 . Detail of the broken bore of the salvaged 8-pounder . Photo : Nico Brinck . Fig. 7 . Detail of a fleur de lys on the first reinforce . Photo : Nico Brinck . gunner's ' V ' near the muzzle ) . This form of versatile ordnance was mainly situated on stanchions or on rails at the high ends of a vessel and along the main deck . On warships they were mounted on platforms between the lower mast and topmast . In these positions they could be used effectively to rain fire down on a vessel's main deck . The Marquise de Tourny's 25 iron cannon confirm that it was armed very similarly to its brother ship Le Grand Marquis de Tourny , which carried 24 guns and had an approximate 460-ton burden . The iron ingot ballast defining the site's surface , in addition to an absence of identifiable cargo , suggests that the ship was likely transporting an organic cargo when she foundered , which has now deteriorated . The seizure in 1757 and description of another Bordeaux privateer , Le Grand Marquis de Tourny , reflects the common import of sugar , coffee , indigo and logwood , of which the first two products would certainly not remain preserved within Site 33c's marine environment . The Marquise de Tourny may have been sailing short-haul between Bordeaux and the French Channel ports when she was lost during a storm in the late 1740s or early 1750s . Beyond two outstandingly preserved wrecks undergoing excavation off St. Malo , France ( the 300-ton royal frigate La Dauphine lost in 1704 and 400-ton L ' Aimable Grenot sunk in 1749 ) , and the comprehensive excavation of the French Machault by Parks Canada , Site 33c is the only other privateer of this period to have been examined archaeologically . The date of 1744 on the Marquise de Tourney's bell coincides with the year when France joined the War of the Austrian Succession ( 1739-48 ) . The ship would have actively participated in the protection of trade and the art of privateering . Privateers like the Marquise de Tourny deployed their own resources to attack and seize vessels and the goods of foreign subjects , over which they acquired the rights to the property appropriated . The practice was not random , but was officially sanctioned under the law of the sea . During the war around 2,828 British privateers went to sea and just over 6,800 English , French and Spanish craft were seized by all sides ( Kingsley , 2011 ) . 4 . Recording & Protection Fig. 8 . Detail of a fleur de lys on the second reinforce . Photo : Nico Brinck . The majority of cannon recovered from seabeds in the modern era can be divided into three basic groups : those landed by fishing vessels , found by dredgers , and thirdly removed by salvors , whether professionals or amateurs . By far the greater volume of guns have been brought ashore by fishing vessels as part of the unwanted daily haul that often includes explosives , such as sea mines and airplane bombs from World War II . The number of trawled up cannon runs into the hundreds ( Kingsley , 2012 : 17 ) . © Odyssey Marine Exploration , 2015 ; www.shipwreck.net Odyssey Marine Exploration Papers 48 ( 2015 ) Fig. 9 . An 8-pounder French iron cannon at Valletta , Malta , of the salvaged Marquise de Tourny form . Photo : Nico Brinck . Trawling can be a hazardous job in the European coastal seas . Many fishermen have lost their lives after striking exploding sea mines , torpedos and bombs , which surfaced in their nets . Sometimes the heavy weight snagged in a net is a harmless cannon . These are always landed , unlike some other categories of finds that are usually dumped on wreck sites . A gun in the net can deliver some easy cash for the crew and good money if it is a bronze gun . To avoid paying taxes ( import tax , income tax ) on this extra item of income , the find is typically kept as secret as possible , also because fishermen are afraid their find will be confiscated by heritage authorities . This reality is all very frustrating for the ordnance historian . Sometimes serious detective work is needed to trace a gun once it has entered the black market . Fortunately , there are exceptions when guns are sometimes reported after the trawler lands its catch . In the past dredgers and survey vessels have played a part in gun recovery from the sea . Dredging zones have to be surveyed before the dredger arrives , but the surveyors do not see what lies beneath the seabed . Guns from this group are usually reported to the authorities . Gun finds removed by salvors are also problematic . Several professional wreck salvors exist in the Netherlands , for instance , who do not focus on historical wooden wrecks . Their main goal is more recent cargos , lost anchors , trawl nets and re-floating recently stranded and foundered vessels . Sometimes during their surveys for lost anchors salvors come across wooden wreck remains with cannon , and on occasions they have brought one home ( cf. Kingsley et al. , 2012 : 5-6 for the salvage in 2011 of a 24-pounder bronze gun from the First Rate English Victory , 1744 ) . These have all been recorded by the author . Hobbyists , like sports diver groups , are also famous for discovering many more wrecks and cannon than professional archeologists . Unfortunately , these are not always reported . If bought by collectors , they still end up sooner or later under the eye of the ordnance historian . In the Netherlands a new Heritage law is under development and scheduled to come into force in 2016 . All salvage by professional and hobbyists groups will be prohibited . Finds by fishing vessels and dredgers will need to be reported by law as soon as possible . However , fishermen and dredger captains can not always know what lies in their path and avoid underwater cultural heritage . Anchored ships dragging their anchors in a gale have ripped many wrecks apart and have dispersed artefacts far and wide . Some guns are found several miles from their wreck . A 3000Hp trawler can pick up a cannon in its net without even being aware of the catch . The gun can cut though the net after a few miles and become lost once more . In conclusion , it is impossible to prevent trawlers and dredgers from catching guns . But it is necessary to convince the crews that such finds should be reported to the proper authorities . Bibliography Boudriot , J. , ' French Sea Service Iron Guns ' , The Journal of the Ordnance Society 8 ( 1996 ) , 72-94 . Bryce , D. , Weaponry from the Machault . An 18th-Century French Frigate ( Parks Canada , Ottawa , 1984 ) . Cunningham Dobson , N. , ' La Marquise de Tourny ( Site 33c ) : A Mid-18th Century Armed Privateer of Bordeaux ' . In G. Stemm and S. Kingsley ( eds . ) , Oceans Odyssey 2 . Underwater Heritage Management & DeepSea Shipwrecks in the English Channel & Atlantic Ocean ( Oxford , 2011 ) , 69-108 . Kingsley , S.A. , ' The Art & Archaeology of Privateering : British Fortunes & Failures in 1744 ' . In G. Stemm and S. Kingsley ( eds . ) , Oceans Odyssey 2 . Underwater Heritage Management & Deep-Sea Shipwrecks in the English Channel & Atlantic Ocean ( Oxford , 2011 ) , 109-42 . Kingsley , S.A. , Out of Sight , Out of Mind ? Fishing & Shipwrecked Heritage ( Wreck Watch Int . , London , 2012 ) . Kingsley , S. , Cunningham Dobson , N. and Van de Walle , F. , ' Balchin's Victory ( Site 25C ) : Shipwreck Monitoring & Cannon Impacts , 2008-2012 ' , OME Papers 24 ( Tampa , Florida , 2012 ) , 1-32 . Klein , P.W. , De Trippen in de 17e eeuw ( London , 1965 ) . © Odyssey Marine Exploration , 2015 ; www.shipwreck.net	Information/Explanation
1672	"In July 1957 British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan told fellow Conservatives at a rally in Bedford , England , that "" most of our people have never had it so good . "" The generation of novelists , playwrights , directors , and filmmakers who became known as the "" Angry Young Men "" could n't have disagreed more . From the mid-1950s to the early 1960s , they produced a body of arresting work that was grounded in the "" kitchen sink "" reality of working-class life , railed against the class-conscious British social order , and reflected the alienated , rebellious , and pessimistic mood of many in post-World War II Britain . Here are 10 of the most prominent figures in that cantankerous lot . Woodfall Film Productions Charles Lumley , the protagonist of John Wain ' s novel Hurry on Down ( 1953 ) , a recent university graduate with contempt for the conformity of his privileged class , and Jim Dixon , the antihero of Kingsley Amis ' s comic classic Lucky Jim ( 1954 ) , who has risen from a modest background to the relatively cushy post of university lecturer , are often cited as precursors , but the ur-Angry Young Man ( AYM ) was Jimmy Porter , the furious focus of John Osborne's play Look Back in Anger ( 1956 ) . First played onstage by Kenneth Haigh and on film by Richard Burton , trumpet-playing Jimmy is a bilious but articulate working-class lad whose university degree has landed him a job as the proprietor of a sweet stand in a market . His rage against class-based oppression and pretension is most often sadistically directed at his wife ( whom he calls "" Lady Pusillanimous "" ) and her upper-middle-class family , whose mannered existence he repeatedly skewers with vengeful rapierlike wit . Critic Kenneth Tynan called Jimmy "" the completest young pup in our literature since Hamlet "" ; a Royal Court Theatre publicist coined the phrase "" angry young man "" to describe him . UPI / Bettmann Newsphotos There is plenty of playwright John Osborne in Jimmy . The son of an advertising copywriter father and an abusive barmaid mother , Osborne carried a lower-middle-class bitterness with him most of his life . Having left school at age 16 after hitting a teacher , Osborne worked as a trade industry journalist and then as an actor in provincial theater before the breakout success of the Royal Court Theatre production of Look Back in Anger in May 1956 made him a literary superstar at age 26 . By putting working-class life , characters , language , and frustrations onstage , Osborne revolutionized British theater , displacing the mannered gentility of playwrights such as Noël Coward and Terence Rattigan . Nearly as memorable as Look Back in Anger was The Entertainer ( play 1959 , film 1963 ) , in which Osborne created the bitter music-hall comedian Archie Rice for Laurence Olivier . In 1961 Osborne extended his condemnation of British society in a letter to the leftist Tribune in which he damned England , writing , "" You 're rotting now , and quite soon you 'll disappear . "" Ironically , although he was long characterized as a bomb-throwing leftist , by the end of his career Osborne had taken a political turn to the right and ended up the kind of country gentleman Jimmy so despised . Osborne's essential collaborator was Tony Richardson , founder of the English Stage Company at the Royal Court and the director of both the stage production and the 1959 film version of Look Back in Anger as well as the stage and film versions of The Entertainer . Together , Osborne and Richardson established Woodfall Film Productions , which released several landmark AYM films , including Saturday Night and Sunday Morning ( 1960 ) and two other crucial AYM films directed by Richardson , A Taste of Honey ( 1961 ) and The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner ( 1962 ) . Richardson got his filmmaking start as part of the Free Cinema movement , joining Lindsay Anderson and Karel Reisz in making short socially conscious documentaries before they became the pillars of the British New Wave of fiction filmmaking . Having grown up in an apartment above the pharmacy owned by his father but with an aristocratic family on his mother's side , the Oxford - educated Richardson was familiar with both sides of the fence that separated privilege and privation in Britain . Woodfall Film Productions Alan Sillitoe ' s novel Saturday Night and Sunday Morning ( 1958 ) focuses on Arthur Seaton ( played in the Reisz-directed film by Albert Finney ) , a boozy , hedonistic young factory worker in gritty industrial Nottingham who lives with his parents and has a passionless affair with a coworker's wife . Self-centered survival seems to be the best that Arthur can hope for in life . On the other hand , Colin Smith , the antihero of Sillitoe's long short story "" The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner , "" who is sent to a borstal ( reform school ) for petty thievery , has a choice : he can cooperate and win a cross-country race to bring glory to the borstal's governor or turn class warrior and rebel and keep his integrity . Sillitoe grew up in transient poverty in Nottingham , left school at 14 , and worked in a factory before becoming a writer . He was celebrated by the Soviet Union as a genuine revolutionary working-class voice , but when he spoke to the Congress of the Soviet Writers' Union in 1968 ( in the presence of Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev ) , Sillitoe denounced the totalitarian suppression of human rights he had observed in the U.S.S.R. Through knowing glances , loaded smirks , and trenchantly inflected dialogue , Tom Courtenay subtly conveys the intricacies of Sillitoe's first-person narrative in his masterful portrayal of Colin in the film version of The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner . When Colin runs , he thinks – about his family , the events that have brought him to the borstal , and the ongoing battle waged between cunning "" out-laws "" and "" in-laws "" in Britain's class-ridden stacked-deck society . This was the breakout role for Courtenay as an actor , but he scored big again in the title role of another classic AYM film , the John Schlesinger - directed comedy Billy Liar ( 1963 ) . In it Courtenay again gives body to the interior life of the protagonist , this time reenacting the Walter Mitty - like fantasy life of an undertaker's clerk who aspires to becoming a writer and leaving his provincial home but , ultimately timid , instead revels in his imaginary heroic ventures in the make-believe land of Ambrosia . Before Courtenay brought the neurotic Billy Fisher to the screen , he was played by Albert Finney in the stage version of Billy Liar , written by Willis Hall and Keith Waterhouse from Waterhouse's popular 1959 novel . Waterhouse grew up in Yorkshire , and his novel – like so many AYM standards – is suffused with the sensibility , manners , and material reality of Northern England , along with the diction and drabness of lower-middle - and working-class life . Billy is a born storyteller , and so was Waterhouse , who wrote plays , screenplays , television scripts , and some 60 books ( including 16 novels ) . Yet beyond Billy Liar , Waterhouse is best remembered in Britain for his long career as a journalist and newspaper columnist . Romulus Films Look Back in Anger hit the stage just a year before the publication of John Braine ' s AYM novel Room at the Top ( 1957 ) , but the film version of the latter beat that of the former onto British screens by several months in 1959 . Unlike most AYM protagonists , Braine's central character , Joe Lampton ( played by Laurence Harvey in the Jack Clayton-directed film ) , is unrelentingly ambitious . The setting is the fictitious Yorkshire town of Warnley ( modeled on Braine's hometown , Bradford ) , to which Joe has moved from smaller , drabber Dufton to take a low-level job with the city . Joe falls deeply in love with an unhappily married older woman ( played by Simone Signoret ) but brings about her suicide ( and the death of his integrity ) by abandoning her to orchestrate a social-climbing , loveless marriage to the daughter of a local Brahmin . Braine , who worked as a librarian for some 17 years , wrote most of Room at the Top while recovering in a sanatorium from tuberculosis contracted during his service in the navy during World War II . Julian Wintle / Leslie Parkyn Productions The polemicist of the British New Wave of the AYM school of filmmaking , Lindsay Anderson began his involvement with motion pictures as a critic , cofounding the influential film journal Sequence while he was a student at Oxford . By the late 1940s he was directing short socially and morally engaged Free Cinema documentaries . He and fellow directors such as Reisz and Richardson continued to embrace the gritty , no-frills naturalism of the Italian Neorealist movement as they turned their attention to making feature films . On-location shooting became a hallmark of the British New Wave , and Anderson set his first fiction film , This Sporting Life ( 1963 ) , an AYM classic based on a novel by David Storey , in Yorkshire , where he had already shot four documentaries . With his visceral tour de force performance as a miner turned star rugby player who mangles his relationship with an emotionally repressed widow , Richard Harris is reminiscent of Marlon Brando ' s brutish Stanley Kowalski . Woodfall Film Productions Shelagh Delaney was not a man , but she was plenty angry at repressive aspects of British society , and she was definitely young – just aged 18 – when she wrote her powerful AYM play A Taste of Honey ( 1958 ) . Delaney had begun to tackle the subject matter as a novel , but she switched formats to drama , partly in response to her disappointment at the treatment of homosexuality in Terence Rattigan ' s play Variations on a Theme . Richardson opened up Delaney's play when he translated it to film ( 1961 ) , working with cinematographer Walter Lassally to make the most of its location in the industrial Salford ( adjacent to Manchester ) , Delaney's home and that of her protagonist , 19-year-old Jo , who becomes pregnant after a one-night stand with a black sailor . Estranged from her mother , Jo is supported by a gay friend who offers to marry her to give the baby a father . Julie Christie made her dynamic film breakthrough in Billy Liar , and Rachel Roberts had the female lead in both This Sporting Life and Saturday Night and Sunday Morning , but it was the much less conventionally attractive Rita Tushingham who became the distaff face of the AYM movement with her soulful portrayal of Jo . Decades after the initial prominence of A Taste of Honey , Delaney's influence loomed large for singer-songwriter Morrissey , who borrowed her lines for song lyrics and put her image on the Smiths ' compilation album Louder than Bombs ( 1987 ) ."	Information/Explanation
1053	"1 . - ( 1 ) The Council shall be a body corporate . ( 2 ) The Council is not the servant or agent of the Crown and does not enjoy any status , immunity or privilege of the Crown . Procedure 2 . The Council has power to regulate its own procedure ( including power to determine its quorum ) . Membership 3 . - ( 1 ) The Council shall consist of at least 10 , but not more than 20 , members . ( 2 ) In this Schedule "" member "" , except in sub-paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , means a member of the Council . ( 3 ) Each member shall be appointed by the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) The Secretary of State shall appoint one member to be chairman of the Council and another member to be its deputy chairman . ( 5 ) The members shall be appointed from among persons who , in the opinion of the Secretary of State - ( a ) have knowledge or experience of the needs of disabled persons or the needs of a particular group , or particular groups , of disabled persons ; ( b ) have knowledge or experience of the needs of persons who have had a disability or the needs of a particular group , or particular groups , of such persons ; or ( c ) are members of , or otherwise represent , professional bodies or bodies which represent industry or other business interests . ( 6 ) Before appointing any member , the Secretary of State shall consult such persons as he considers appropriate . ( 7 ) In exercising his powers of appointment , the Secretary of State shall try to secure that at all times at least half the membership of the Council consists of disabled persons , persons who have had a disability or the parents or guardians of disabled persons . Term of office of members 4 . - ( 1 ) Each member shall be appointed for a term which does not exceed five years but shall otherwise hold and vacate his office in accordance with the terms of his appointment . ( 2 ) A person shall not be prevented from being appointed as a member merely because he has previously been a member . ( 3 ) Any member may at any time resign his office by written notice given to the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) Regulations may make provision for the Secretary of State to remove a member from his office in such circumstances as may be prescribed . Remuneration 5 . - ( 1 ) The Secretary of State may pay such remuneration or expenses to any member as he considers appropriate . ( 2 ) The approval of the Treasury is required for any payment made under this paragraph . Staff 6 . The Secretary of State shall provide the Council with such staff as he considers appropriate . Supplementary regulation-making power 7 . The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision - ( a ) as to the provision of information to the Council by the Secretary of State ; ( b ) as to the commissioning by the Secretary of State of research to be undertaken on behalf of the Council ; ( c ) as to the circumstances in which and conditions subject to which the Council may appoint any person as an adviser ; ( d ) as to the payment by the Secretary of State , with the approval of the Treasury , of expenses incurred by the Council . Annual report 8 . - ( 1 ) As soon as is practicable after the end of each financial year , the Council shall report to the Secretary of State on its activities during the financial year to which the report relates . ( 2 ) The Secretary of State shall lay a copy of every annual report of the Council before each House of Parliament and shall arrange for such further publication of the report as he considers appropriate ."	Legal
675	Established in 1974 , this family owned and managed company has always been at the forefront of innovation in the car dismantling industry . From the outset the company policy has been to improve the image of the industry and service levels provided to both our customers and suppliers alike . The company now enjoys an enviable reputation for quality and service and believes itself to be the market leader in the North West of England . SALVAGE Department Wharton Industrial Estate Winsford Cheshire CW7 3BQ Telephone : 01606 553200 Fax : 01606 557778 E Mail : salvage@car-transplants.co.uk	Promotion
994	"Reuters to top up pension funds 24 May 2006 The international media organisation Reuters is going to pay an extra £ 236m into its two final salary pension schemes over the next two years . The company has taken the decision to help eliminate a pension deficit calculated last year at £ 265m . Reuters will also adopt a less risky investment strategy for the schemes , in the hope that the moves will prevent a deficit in the future . The deal comes after protracted negotiations with the scheme trustees . The two final salary schemes operated by Reuters were closed to new members in 1999 . Since then , all new recruits joining the company have been able to join a money purchase "" defined contribution "" scheme instead ."	News
980	These are given to you to help you keep organised and you must have them with you at all times . You are also given a general work book ( a GWB ) ; this is for most rough working before you write in your exercise book . Again the first one is given to you and if you use if properly you can have another one free when it is full . However , if it is wasted by scribbling and misuse you will have to pay for a replacement . This Planner is more than a homework diary . It is designed to help you to : plan your work ; manage your time ; record your achievements ; review your progress ; set targets for improvement . Your planner should forge a regular link between home and school . It must be signed weekly by you , your parents and your tutor . It should be used to enhance your personal organisation . Make sure you record all homework and when it needs to be completed . Remember to record things that you have achieved both in and out of school . Your planner is so important that your tutor will spend time going through it with you . Each week your parents will sign it and your tutor will check to see how many merits you have earned and any comments your teachers have written in . Your timetable and homework are written in every lesson so it keeps you organised . Replacements are 75p so take care of them .	Instruction
87	"Medvedev dismisses EU criticism of Duma elections Russian President Dmitry Medvedev on Thursday said a European Parliament resolution calling for new State Duma elections "" means nothing . "" "" I have nothing to say on this resolution , because these are our elections . The European Parliament has no relation to them . They can comment on anything they want . I will not comment on their decisions as they mean nothing to me , "" the Russian president said at a joint press conference with European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso and European Council President Herman Van Rompuy . Russia's parliamentary parties have severely criticized the European Parliament's resolution , labeling it interference in the country's domestic affairs , Medvedev added . They have also demanded that it stop such "" escapades . """	News
815	Look at picture 15 . Part A shows the nucleus of a cell . The nucleus contains genetic material in the form of chromosomes . a ) How many chromosomes does the cell in picture A contain ? b ) Before mitosis , there is an increase in genetic material . Why do you think this happens ? c ) How many chromosomes would each of the new cells ( part C ) have ? d ) Why are the cells formed by motosis genetically identical ? e ) Explain why cancer cells keep growing even though the original mutation happened in only a single cell . What our experts say : a ) 6 . b ) Cell copies all its parts and this includes making a copy of the DNA in its nucleus . Just before a cell splits during mitosis it has double the normal amount of DNA . c ) 6 . d ) During the first stages of mitosis , the cell's DNA makes an exact copy of itself . One copy is passed onto each of the two new cells . This means the two new cells are genetically identical . e ) The cancer is caused by a mutation that happens in just one cell . This is a change in the original cell's DNA that triggers it to grow out of control . The mutation is copied when the DNA is copied during mitosis and so all of the cells that grow from the original cell will contain the mutation . This means that the new cancer cells continue to grow in an uncontrolled way .	Information/Explanation
1042	"1987 c . 37 . The Access to Personal Files Act 1987 . The whole Act . 1988 c . 40 . The Education Reform Act 1988 . Section 223 . 1988 c . 50 . The Housing Act 1988 . In Schedule 17 , paragraph 80 . 1990 c . 23 . The Access to Health Records Act 1990 . In section 1 ( 1 ) , the words from "" but does not "" to the end . In section 3 , subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) to ( e ) and , in subsection ( 6 ) ( a ) , the words "" in the case of an application made otherwise than by the patient "" . Section 4 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . In section 5 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( i ) , the words "" of the patient or "" and the word "" other "" . In section 10 , in subsection ( 2 ) the words "" or orders "" and in subsection ( 3 ) the words "" or an order under section 2 ( 3 ) above "" . In section 11 , the definitions of "" child "" and "" parental responsibility "" . 1990 c . 37 . The Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 . Section 33 ( 8 ) . 1990 c . 41 . The Courts and Legal Services Act 1990 . In Schedule 10 , paragraph 58 . 1992 c . 13 . The Further and Higher Education Act 1992 . Section 86 . 1992 c . 37 . The Further and Higher Education ( Scotland ) Act 1992 . Section 59 . 1993 c . 8 . The Judicial Pensions and Retirement Act 1993 . In Schedule 6 , paragraph 50 . 1993 c . 10 . The Charities Act 1993 . Section 12 . 1993 c . 21 . The Osteopaths Act 1993 . Section 38 . 1994 c . 17 . The Chiropractors Act 1994 . Section 38 . 1994 c . 19 . The Local Government ( Wales ) Act 1994 . In Schedule 13 , paragraph 30 . 1994 c . 33 . The Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 . Section 161 . 1994 c . 39 . The Local Government etc. ( Scotland ) Act 1994 . In Schedule 13 , paragraph 154 ."	Legal
998	Ifil makes Lions return Saturday Jan 21 2006 10 : 52 Millwall have re-signed Spurs right-back Phil Ifil on loan until the end of the season . Blades complete Ifill capture Thursday Sep 29 2005 16 : 03 Millwall midfielder Paul Ifill has ended a prolonged period of speculation about his future by signing for Championship rivals Sheffield United . Ifill targets play-off spot Thursday Sep 29 2005 15 : 09 Millwall midfielder Paul Ifill believes the Lions can still win a place in the Nationwide Division One play-offs . Ifill praises Paphitis Thursday Sep 29 2005 14 : 36 Millwall midfielder Paul Ifill has praised Theo Paphitis in the build-up to Sunday's final game for the outgoing Lions chairman . Wilkins rules out Ifill exit Thursday Sep 29 2005 13 : 36 Millwall assistant boss Ray Wilkins insists Paul Ifill is not for sale despite interest in the striker from Stoke City . Lions reject Ifill approach Thursday Sep 29 2005 13 : 05 Millwall have revealed they have rejected a £ 750 , 000 offer for winger Paul Ifill . Ifill backs Wise for Lions job Thursday Sep 29 2005 10 : 53 Millwall winger Paul Ifill has given his backing to Lions caretaker manager Dennis Wise , believing that the veteran midfielder should be given the job on a permanent basis . Ifill blow for Lions Thursday Sep 29 2005 10 : 01 Millwall are set to be without Paul Ifill for at least two games after he picked up a calf injury at Plymouth in Saturday's 0-0 draw . Lions suffer Ifill blow Thursday Sep 29 2005 09 : 04 Millwall midfielder Paul Ifill will have a hernia operation on Wednesday that is expected to keep him out of action for up to six weeks .	News
1645	"It 's tough for a little seed to make it in the big world . Not only must a seed land in a suitable place to grow , but it must also compete with existing plants for water , nutrients , and sunlight . Rough ! Given that both the parent plant and its offspring are usually at a disadvantage if they must contend with each other for these resources , evolution has shaped a number of ingenious adaptations for plants to disperse their seeds and fruits . Read on to learn about some of the strategies flowering plants employ to get their progeny to new places . Out to Sea Brian Gratwicke Coastal plants are generally very tolerant of salt water , and some are adapted to utilizing their watery habitat as a means of moving their seeds . The iconic coconut is perhaps the most-famous botanical seafarer . The thick floating fruits are impermeable to water and are filled with nutrients to keep the embryo alive for months at sea . As a result , the plants have successfully colonized tropical islands around the world . Similarly , certain mangrove species produce hardy propagules that can survive for up to a year in salt water . These long narrow structures float upright and root rapidly when they encounter a suitable substrate , allowing mangroves to shape shoreline ecosystems worldwide . Several freshwater plants , including the lotus , employ similar strategies and have long dormancies that allow them to wait until conditions are favorable to sprout . Explosive ! Kurt Stueber / www.BioLib.de Incredibly , a number of plant species utilize explosive force to fling their seeds away . Many mistletoes have explosive fruits with sticky seeds to ( hopefully ) propel their parasitic offspring high into neighboring trees . The sandbox tree , native to tropical America , has exploding capsules that can launch seeds up to 100 meters ( 330 feet ) away with speeds of up to 70 meters per second ( 160 mph ) ! People have been injured by the force of those seeds , and the sound of the explosion can be heard echoing through the forest . Some types of exploding fruits , such as the squirting cucumber , utilize built-up water pressure to expel the seeds , while others , such as certain violets , employ the tension from the drying fruits to fling their offspring away . Fur and Feathers Robert H. Mohlenbrock / U.S. Department of Agriculture , NRCS PLANTS Database Some seeds and fruits are adapted to stick to the fur or feathers ( or clothing ! ) of unsuspecting animals ; when the animal finally frees itself of its clingy passenger , the seed / fruit is usually far away from where it started . These tenacious structures typically feature hooks , barbs , spines , or even mucilage to attach to a passing animal . While most of these are nothing more than irksome , some , such as foxtails , can get trapped in an animal's ears or nose and injure the poor creature . Burdock , with its spiky hooked fruits , is said to have been the inspiration for Velcro ! Fly Away Equipped with parachutes or wings , gliders , or helicopters , a diverse group of plants have adaptations for wind dispersal . For example , each tiny dandelion fruit has a feathery "" pappus "" to help it catch a breeze ( or a dreamer's wish ) . Maple "" whirlybirds "" are winged fruits called samaras that spin their way to a new location . Some seeds , like those of the jacaranda , are "" flutterers "" and have papery edges to help them disperse . One of the most-amazing examples of wind dispersal is seen in the Javan cucumber , whose seeds are borne in translucent aerodynamic gliders that can be 12 cm ( about 5 inches ) across ! Buried Alive Mwanner Some plants have coevolved with animals in such a way that their seeds are collected and helpfully buried in a clever symbiosis . Squirrels famously misplace their buried caches of acorns , which then have an excellent chance of germinating . Interestingly , studies have shown that even half-eaten acorns can still sprout if the embryo inside is undamaged , meaning that squirrels unwittingly disperse more seeds than just those in their forgotten stores . Other seeds have fleshy structures called elaiosomes that specifically attract ( and feed ) ants , which take the seeds to their nests . Harvester ants and other species remove the tasty elaiosomes and dispose of the unwanted seeds in their dark fertile waste chambers – perfect for an embryonic plant ! Perhaps the most-incredible example of burial is seen in the relationship between dung beetles and Ceratocaryum argenteum , a grassy species . The seeds of this plant use "" fecal mimicry "" to trick the poor beetles into thinking they are lovely balls of dung in which to lay their eggs . The beetles roll the seeds away and bury them but get nothing in return ."	Information/Explanation
964	Housing Benefit . If you are a private tenant or tenant of a Housing Association , you will be paid every four weeks in arrears . Payments are usually made direct in to a bank account but we can pay by crossed cheque if you do n't have a bank account . Housing Benefit can also be paid direct to your landlord if you wish and your landlord is prepared to accept this . Your landlord can also ask to be paid direct without your permission if you are eight weeks or more in rent arrears . If you are a tenant of Ashfield Homes Ltd , your benefit will be credited to your rent account . You will need to pay any difference between your benefit and rent direct to them . Council Tax Benefit . Council Tax Benefit is credited to your Council Tax account and you are then billed for any remaining difference . If you pay by instalments , any benefit is taken in to account when these are worked out .	Instruction
817	Bifurcation Theory In a dynamical system , a bifurcation is a qualitative change in the behaviour of the system caused by a small smooth change in the value of a system parameter . Bifurcations are responsible for the creation and annihilation of equilibria and periodic solutions in a given system and their occurrence is accompanied by a change of solution stability . The knowledge of such qualitative changes is paramount to understanding the long-run behaviour of any dynamical system . The occurrence of bifurcations can be investigated geometrically by analysing the phase space for different parameter values of a given system . Geometric representations of bifurcation structures have the advantage of allowing a visual interpretation of how the parameters of a system affect its behaviour . A bifurcation diagram is a plot of the solutions ( or some feature of the solutions such as the maximum or L2 norm ) of a given system against a single system parameter . These plots are commonly used to display how the stability of solutions changes as the given parameter is varied . In the analysis of dynamical systems with more than one parameter , it is important to determine not only which parameters will cause bifurcations when their values are changed , but also how the bifurcation structure for a particular parameter is affected when changing the value of another . This is known as two-parameter bifurcation analysis . Generally , two-parameter bifurcation diagrams include curves of codimension-1 bifurcations , as well as specific points on these curves defining codimension-2 bifurcations . In order to characterise a particular bifurcation , the behaviour of the system within the region of a local bifurcation point can often be reduced to a simplified normal form . The normal form is the system with a minimum number of parameters and nonlinear terms whereby all systems undergoing the same bifurcation are topologically equivalent . A system that fulfils these requirements is known as the topological normal form of a given bifurcation . The Hartman-Grobmann theorem states that within the local region of a hyperbolic equilibrium , the behaviour of system is topologically equivalent to a linear system . However , at a bifurcation point , the number of eigenvalues with zero real parts is non-zero and thus the point is always non-hyperbolic . Consequentially , the topological normal forms of bifurcation points are always nonlinear .	Information/Explanation
950	HOW CAN I PAY MY RENT ? There are several ways of making payment : On-line Payments can be made via the allpayments . net facility . Click here to open the site in a new window . At the Post Office You can make a payment at any Post Office using your rent payment card , which you will receive in the post . If you are using a different method of payment such as Housing Benefit or standing order , please keep hold of the card as your circumstances may change in the future . You can use the payment card we provide in any Post Office . Pay Point You can use your rent card at any shop that displays the pay point sign . Through your Bank Account You can set up a standing order with your bank . Speak to your Home Ownership Officer for the details on this . Over the Phone Telephone the automated payments line , and make a payment using your debit card . Ensure that you have your rent account and card details available . Please call : 0870 243 6040 By Post You can send either a cheque or postal order made payable to Central Methodist Housing Association to our Southern Gate office . Please make sure you write your address and account number on the back of the cheque . If you have any queries regarding your rent statement please speak to your Home Ownership Officer .	Instruction
1000	Marshall 's an unhappy Lion Thursday Sep 29 2005 14 : 47 Ipswich Town goalkeeper Andy Marshall is unhappy with his lack of first-team opportunities since joining Millwall on loan . Marshall's Lions blast Thursday Sep 29 2005 13 : 34 Millwall goalkeeper Andy Marshall has revealed that he is considering his future at the club as he claims he was given false promises when he signed last year . Marshall on the mend Thursday Sep 29 2005 11 : 33 Millwall goalkeeper Andy Marshall is recovering at home after being knocked unconscious during the Lions ' 2-1 home win against Preston North End . Marshall ca n't wait for Cup Final day Thursday Sep 29 2005 11 : 28 Millwall goalkeeper Andy Marshall believes the Lions can beat Manchester United in the FA Cup Final if they play to their full potential . Marshall poised for Lions loan move Thursday Sep 29 2005 09 : 19 Ipswich Town 's out of favour goalkeeper Andy Marshall is poised to join Millwall on a month's loan .	News
375	Contact Details : James Melody Stelfox UK Ltd +44 1273 727 930 james @ stelfoxuk . c om Stelfox UK Ltd Albert House 82 Queens Road Brighton East Sussex BN1 3XE United Kingdom Medical Director - Pharmacovigilence Business Type : Clinical Research Organisation , Contract Research Organisation Job Type : Pharmacovigilance , Medical Director Position : Full Time Salary : On Application Location : Germany Reference : JM0MfD Background : My client , a world renowned CRO , is currently seeking to recruit a Medical Director to oversee and supervise the activities of the Pharmacovigilance Department in order to ensure compliance with ethical , legal , and regulatory standards . This is an exciting opportunity for a pharmaceutical physician to head up a well established group . Primary Duties : - Oversee safety issues of clinical studies conducted which will include , but not be limited to , the following : - Adverse event reporting to the sponsor - Follow up of adverse events as necessary - Communication of safety issues to Chief Medical Officer - Participate in the on-call safety monitoring procedure . - Provide all necessary medical support functions which will include , but not be limited to , the following : - Medical information source - Ongoing training for project teams in therapeutic areas as requested - Review of study documentation ( protocol , CRF etc. ) - Contribute to investigator meeting presentations - Ongoing safety review of individual patient laboratory reports generated by central laboratories ( if requested by the Sponsor ) - CRF safety review - Contribute any necessary clinical interpretation into integrated clinical and statistical reports - Assist senior management in making presentations to potential clients when appropriate . - Demonstrate a thorough understanding of Standard Operating Procedures ( SOPs ) and ensure that all activities are conducted in accordance with current SOPs . - Demonstrate a thorough understanding of applicable regulatory standards in the country where clinical studies are to be conducted and ensure that all activities are conducted in compliance with current regulations . Qualifications : - Medical degree and broad based post graduate experience - Ability and willingness to travel approximately 15 % of the time ( 4 days per month ) - Ability to review and evaluate clinical data - Good oral and written communication skills - Ability to liaise with senior management team Additional Information : Stelfox operates on a very simple maxim : Find out what people want and give it to them . The primary focus of each Stelfox consultant is to cultivate a relationship with both client and candidate based on professionalism , speed and accuracy . The latter being the obvious competitive advantage offered by Stelfox afforded through the knowledge and experience of each individual consultant . The Stelfox team know exactly what type of individuals and skillset each of our clients repeatedly look for . Please contact James Melody for details of this or any other opportunities Posted by :: Stelfox ( View all our vacancies ) Apply Online | Contact Recruiter Unless otherwise stated , if applying for a job , you must ensure that you are already authorised to work in the country in which the job is based Posted : 03 / 08 / 2006 LD Ref : 11535	Promotion
877	"Residents and businesses in the Powys part of the Dyfi Valley are being invited to help create an action plan that will improve the quality of life and vitality of the area . Each of the four public events planned for July will focus on a specific theme and will bring together the two community organisations that have been researching local needs . Each meeting will also discuss the relevant section of the draft Powys Community Strategy . The Communities First process in Machynlleth , Cadfarch , Glantwymyn and Llanbrynmair is entering a new phase . A lot of suggestions concerning the future of the Dyfi valley have been gathered during the community consultations . Equally , many people in the same area have contributed their ideas during the events organised by the Local Community Forum ( part of the community strategy process in Powys ) . Andy Rowland is the Chair of the Forum . "" All these ideas have been sorted into a number of themes "" , he explained , "" but now we need to turn them into a draft action plan for the area . "" This means deciding which ones will make a real difference , who will bring them about and how soon , as well as seeing what kind of vision they add up to . "" The first meeting will be held at Llanbrynmair Community Centre on Monday 5th July . It will consider education and training , including overcoming barriers to learning . On Wednesday 7th July the meeting at Machynlleth Care Centre will discuss the economy and employment . Key items will include sustainable activity tourism , childcare and creating a distinctive local economy based on local resources . On Monday 12th July , an event at Glantwymyn Community Centre , Cemmaes Road will turn its attention to the countryside and environment , including such issues as waste and recycling . Transport will take centre stage at the Owain Glyndwr Institute on Wednesday 14th July , when the results of the recent Transport Needs Survey will be made available . This event will cover cycling , walking and community transport as well as public transport provision . All meetings start at 7.30 p.m. Further information : Andy Rowland , ecodyfi Manager 01654 703965 Cyril Evans , Bro Ddyfi Communities First Facilitator 01654 700315"	Promotion
1291	"Brainstorming Software : Ideafisher Morphs Into Thoughtoffice ThoughtOffice is latest step in the evolution of business creativity solutions that began with IdeaFisher . Portland , OR , ( PRAvenueNW ) -- IdeaFisher came first . It caused quite a stir when it was introduced years ago as a way to bring brainstorming to the personal computer . ThoughtOffice is latest step in the evolution of business creativity solutions that began with IdeaFisher . It adds to Marsh Fisher's original vision a multimedia and web-savvy approach to computerized brainstorming . Marsh may not have fully anticipated the Internet but he saw the possibilities brainstorming software would unleash to creatives worldwide . As far back as the 1970s , Fisher , the founder of Century 21 , began looking for a computer software solution to the challenge of streamlining and improving the brainstorming process . Released in 1988 to critical acclaim , Fisher's breakthrough IdeaFisher ( http://www.thoughtoffice.com ) software quickly became the leading program in its category worldwide . ThoughtOffice , the pedigreed successor to IdeaFisher , was given its present name by Mark Effinger , an innovative "" multrepreneur , "" who developed around Marsh Fisher's program with the express purpose of adapting it to the new circumstances now at work in a computer environment shaped by the innovations of the Internet Age . Effinger added new features and functions to Marsh Fisher's principles and brought to it to market with access to the astonishing resources of the World Wide Web . ThoughtOffice not only built on the platform introduced by IdeaFisher but combined it with other creativity tools such as mindmapping and visual outlining ( http://thoughtoffice.com/blog/?page_id=355 ) . According to Chuck Frey , founder of www.InnovationTools.com , "" ThoughtOffice will help you to take your creative problem-solving skills to the next level . "" Frey adds , "" ThoughtOffice does a great job of leveraging the power of associative thinking ( http://thoughtoffice.com/blog/?page_id=325 ) . Using its rich , interconnected resources , you can follow a long trail of associations without running out of creative steam . Or you can follow a guided problem solving process to reveal fresh ideas and insights . In short , ThoughtOffice is like IdeaFisher on steroids . "" ThoughtOffice also makes ideas easy to understand and share with others -- employees , business associates , or clients -- whether in the same room , or across the web . Building on the original IdeaFisher process , one of the ThoughtOffice program's key functions is the IdeaBrowser , an exclusive brainstorming creativity engine that uses words , phrases , popular search engine phrases and images to help explore ideas quickly and easily . The program is integrated with ThoughtOffice , creating a hybrid of mind mapping and outlining capabilities in an easily accessible mini-browser that jump-starts the creative process . Frey also tells us , "" ThoughtOffice provides users with an unprecedented variety and volume of idea stimuli . It also succeeds in bringing together two different types of creative thinking ( http://www.thoughtoffice.com/?page_id=5 ) into one well-designed software program . Its question databases provide a solid foundation for left-brained , systematic problem definition , while its idea-generation tools serve as a catalyst to help the right half of your brain to make new associations and connections , which should lead to more breakthrough ideas . "" The ThoughtOffice programs , which range in price from $ 99 to $ 499 , address 17 distinct areas of expertise . What they have in common is the ability to harness the creative practices to productivity tools usually found only in separate programs . ThoughtOffice "" Bundles "" cover everything from Marketing and Advertising ( http://thoughtoffice.com/blog/?page_id=289 ) techniques to Effective Communication for live and written presentation . eXpertTopic Modules , which were developed with the use of a cadre of experts in creative fields , expand the core ThoughtOffice application and are targeted toward very specific Topics such as Conflict Resolution or Story & Screenplay Writing . The innovative successor to IdeaFisher works as an extension of the brain . Each is loaded with hundreds of questions that mine the subconscious for known and often-forgotten information -- and uncovers new connections through the kind of juxtaposition that lies at the heart of creativity . Advertising and PR consultant Martin Grossman ( http://marketingmatters.blogs.com/martin_grossman ) was early adopter of IdeaFisher and later a ThoughtOffice customer is convinced that ThoughtOffice is an indispensable tool for his practice . "" If creative types need to get their minds around a big , complicated project quickly , ThoughtOffice will help them do it faster and do it better , "" says Grossman . "" It 's the breakthrough in creativity software that people who think for a living have been waiting many years to see . "" About ThoughtOffice : ThoughtOffice Corporation was founded in 2005 as a solution to individuals and corporations needing to generate effective and creative ideas and innovations quickly and thoroughly . Founded by one-time developer and apprentice to Marsh Fisher , the company's solutions are used by most of the Global 5000 , hundreds of advertising agencies , NASA , Homeland Security , Inc 500 firms and cunsulting organizations . A team of seasoned executive coaches , creative professionals and software developers , ThoughtOffice is based in Vancouver , Washington ; the company can be reached at http://www.ThoughtOffice.com or by phone at 360-609-9272 . <a href="" http://www.pressreleasepoint.com""> Pressrelease distribution by Pressreleasepoint"	Promotion
660	Medway offers exciting business opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ) . Medway Council's Economic Development and Business Support Team has a key role in organising the annual Medway Small Business Awards . This award scheme offers the opportunity for local businesses to be rewarded for their commitment and hard work . For more information , please visit www.medwaybusiness.co.uk/index/busservices/financial_support/4092.htm to see how your business could benefit from this prestigious and well-established scheme . According to the Department for Trade and Industry ( www.dti.gov.uk ) : A small enterprise : has fewer than 50 employees , has either : - an annual turnover of no more than E7 million ( about £ 4 . 3 million ) or - a balance sheet total of no more than E5 million ( about £ 3 . 1 million ) is no more than 25 % owned by companies not falling within this definition . A medium-sized enterprise : has between 50 and 249 employees , has either : - an annual turnover of no more than E40 million ( about £ 25 million ) or - a balance sheet total of no more than E27 million ( about £ 17 million ) is no more than 25 % owned by companies not falling within this definition .	Promotion
1372	Because we live in a society where everything is fast paced – where folks are always on the go and yearning for the opportunity to decide how they 'd like to watch TV , video or listen to music – accessibility has become very important to ones living . A large number of Web TV services have sprung up over the web with the arrival of web technology that continues to steam forward to meet consumer needs . The way things use to be during the past when consumers were limited to their TVs is not the case nowadays . Give thanks to Internet connecting mobile devices and computers that let you download apps / software to get fast , easy access to all kinds of free content , or at minimal cost , across the world . Take for example a service like iSatelliteLink that offers software which can be downloaded to any Windows-based desktop or laptop with a wireless or preferred broadband web connection . And they provide more accessibility when offering a 3 in 1 package consisting of TvonPC , mobile compatibility , and legal film downloads . Now consumers can watch whatever they desire , on the go , without the utilization of a TV-set . Where technology is today one can only guess what lies ahead , as leading edge technology raises the bar and continues to gear itself toward the web . There 's something you can be certain of – More paid TV subscribers will cut the cord or dish and opt for the cheapest route , even if it implies giving up some of the higher quality to some extent . In turn , they will get fast and easy access to their favourite content from any location and that 's where a lot of folks will be headed – Internet TV .	Information/Explanation
1018	LMRA is not responsible for the services provided by the companies listed . LMRA does not recommend or endorse any products or services provided by others . Information is provided here without warrant and is for the benefit of the members and customers of LMRA . Please let the web administrator know if you discover that the information is out of date or inaccurate . Taxi and private hire services	Legal
1007	"Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas has begun his first talks with Islamic militants Hamas since their shock election win last week . At the meeting in Gaza City , the two sides are expected to discuss the formation of a new government , although officials say the talks are informal . Hamas won a majority of seats in the Palestinian assembly beating Mr Abbas' governing Fatah party , and is under international pressure to renounce violence against Israel . It has so far refused to do so , although it has said it is willing to merge its military wing into a Palestinian army . "" It is yet unclear whether the president will ask Hamas to form the government officially or not , "" Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri was quoted as saying by Reuters news agency . The talks would still be "" very important because we await answers from the president on several issues "" , he added . Conditions Mr Abbas is expected to call for Hamas to respect commitments already agreed by the Palestinian Authority , including the renunciation of violence , a commitment to negotiations with Israel , and a two-state solution . But Hamas' political leader , Khaled Meshaal , has said the extremist movement will never recognise Israel , despite threats from the United States and European Union to cut funding to the Palestinian Authority . However , he said Hamas could offer Israel a ceasefire . The Israeli government has refused to deal with any administration containing Hamas unless the group recognises Israel and abandons violence and what it says is its "" terror "" infrastructure . Source : BBC News website ."	News
959	Register with the system in just a few minutes . Once you 've registered you 'll be able search for suitable vacancies . 5 . Track your application Track the status of your application at any time simply by logging back into the system and clicking on the ' Search / Apply ' tab . 2 . Search Use the ' Search / Apply ' tab to find a suitable vacancy . Before you can apply for a vacancy you will need to complete an OLAF . 6 . Check your e-mails You can access all messages sent to you via this website . Your e-mails are delivered instantly , so if you have trouble accessing your normal e-mail system you can still check for messages here . Click on the ' Search / Apply ' tab and then against each individual application you can ' view progress details ' . Click on ' view messages ' to read the e-mail . 3 . Completing your OLAF If you find a suitable vacancy , in order to apply you will first need to complete your OLAF . You can log in and out of the system as many times as you want , and preview your OLAF at any time . 7 . Update your OLAF You can maintain and update your OLAF continuously , even after you 've applied for vacancies . Simply log back into the system to update your OLAF . 4 . Apply for a vacancy When you 're happy that your OLAF is complete , apply for one or more of the current vacancies advertised on Graduate Advantage . You 'll be sent an e-mail to confirm that your application has been receieved .	Instruction
1383	"Quality control guidelines The CCC grant involves transporting unique primary source materials between the Digital Production Centers of Duke , NCSU , and UNC-Chapel Hill for scanning . In the first few months of the grant , the Production & Materials Management Working Group developed guidelines for performing quality control at each Digital Production Center and workflows for verifying digital files . Below is an outline of the guidelines created for the grant . Duke scanning and postprocessing Scanning Following specific instructions developed for each collection , the scanner operator uses the appropriate equipment , settings and digitization guide to digitize the collection . Benchmark tests are performed and saved during each scanning session . During the capture process the operator monitors the images for quality and file naming errors . The images are saved in a structured way on the local drive and the digitization guide is updated to reflect the completion of an item . At the end of each shift , a DPC staff member moves the images to the DPC server . While the majority of the collection anomalies should be identified and resolved before digitization begins , if the scanner operator encounters an anomaly that is not covered in the scanning guidelines he or she stops digitization and reports the problem to the supervising DPC staff member . Quality Control 1 The Quality Control process is different depending on the scanning device and the nature of the material . Typically , unless automated during capture , the images are manually cropped ( leaving a 50 pixel background margin ) , de-skewed , correctly oriented , and processed at the proper resolution . The operator inspects all images for the correct file name , clipping , banding , blocking , color fidelity , uniform crop , and color profile . Quality Control 2 ( Derivative Creation ) Unless automated during capture , the operator manually crops images ( leaving no background ) and saves as JPEGs to a quality control folder on DPC server . During the second pass of quality control , student assistants inspect each image for : image consistency from operator to operator and image to image , assessing the cropping , dust removal , and border consistency , and perform any advanced processing needed to produce a quality digital surrogate . Finalize During this phase the DPC staff compares the digitization guide against the tiff and jpg files on the DPC server . Discrepancies such as missing files , misnamed files , and missing line items in the digitization guide are resolved . Once these issues are resolved display derivatives can be created using a script . NCSU scanning and postprocessing Scanning Scan materials using a BetterLight Super8KS at 300dpi ; save to TIFF , shooting vertical ( down ) . The scanning technician captures all of the source document with a minimal boundary so that all edges are visible in the resulting image . We can , but often do not , weigh down the edges or corners of the document . Quality control We view the image in Adobe PhotoShop at 100 % and pan around the four edges of the image looking for R , G , or B streaks that would indicate dust on the sensor . We pan through the interior of the image checking that the focus is good and there are no obvious errors or artifacts , physical or digital . We then check that color / appearance is approximate to that of the original and perform light touch-ups using unsharp masks to neaten the focus . We do not have to do this step in scans for other institutions if they would not like it to be performed . We usually do not scan oversized documents in an orientation that would require the rotation of the digital image , but all final images are in the proper orientation . Architectural drawings are usually scanned in the orientation of the title block , which can sometimes result in a sideways drawing . This is an editorial decision that can be adjusted . UNC scanning and postprocessing Scanning We scan materials on Zeutschels in TIFF format . When finalizing the scans from Zeutschels the files are named , moved to the appropriate drives , and the automated metadata is created by the scanning software and written to a text file . Next , we onvert TIFFs to JP2s in Adobe Bridge for long term storage . Finally , we create and OCR PDFs of each folder of images in Adobe Acrobat , and save the OCR as a txt file . Quality control When reviewing material , we 're mostly making sure the materials are readable . If documents are slightly skewed , slightly off color , etc. , we do not rescan them if the digital file is easily readable . This approach is specific to large-scale digitization and is taken with the idea that there is not enough time to review / fix every scan in a large scale digitization project . At the beginning of review for a batch of materials , we visually check every scan and compare to the analog materials . After the completion of the first couple of folders from a batch , we visually spot check the digital scans while comparing to the analog folders . Visual checks include : The filename assigned to the image is correct based on the statement of work ( UNC documentation for a batch of material to be scanned ) Color matches the original or is somehow "" improved "" The scan was done in the correct orientation Any image skew found is acceptable for the scan to be readable No dust , hair , specks of paper , etc are present Pages appear in the correct order for multi-page items Metadata recorded in the automated file from the Zeutschel is correct for the job / folder Deleting blank pages , and then renaming files after the deletion When creating PDFs , we scroll through PDFs looking for obvious errors . When uploading PDFs to ContentDM , we scroll through all of the scans to look for obvious errors . ContentDM will also deny the upload of files for many file name / resolution errors . When files are uploaded and linked to the online finding aid , we spot check images for quality issues , such as blurriness or distortion to make sure the upload was performed at "" jp2 lossy ( 75 % ) "" settings . Throughout all stages of quality control , we rescan if we find an error that makes the scans unreadable or distorted . If any institutions find errors with the scans produced by UNC for this grant , they can send the hollinger box back to the UNC DPC with a note on the tracking spreadsheet about what materials were missed / cut off / etc on the next delivery . The DPC will rescan the scan / folder accordingly , and send it back with the next batch of materials . Checksumming and digital file verification All three digital production centers are commited to implementing the BagIt specification and supporting tools for digital file packaging and transfer , checksum production , and checksum verification . This is a free tool that may require a few minutes of a technically-inclined person's time to install . BagIt packages collections of digital files into a "" bag "" that can include any number of subdirectories . A manifest file is created with the bag that lists all the checksums associated with the files within . See an example of the BagIt file structure below , using NCSU's file naming scheme . Every BagIt bag will be created BEFORE digital files are moved from the location to which they are saved during scanning . This enables checksum verification to catch any file corruption that might take place as files are moved around , for examples , as files are moved onto an external hard drive . While we originally planned for each BagIt bag to be created at the batch level ( with all materials sent in a single physical transfer to the scanning institution returned in a single bag ) , after the test run of the first BagIt transfer to NCSU from UNC in December 2011 we decided to create BagIt bags at the box level instead of the batch level . There are too many files in a bag for a desktop computer to have enough "" umph "" to validate with very large bags . The sending institution creates the bags , then moves them to an external hard drive . The sending institution then performs bag validation on the external hard drive , so that if something was corrupted in the move to the hard drive we do n't send over corrupt files . The sending institution SHOULD NOT look at any of the files on the hard drive with a Windows machine after bags have been created ; this seems to cause the creation of a thumbs . db file as soon as a network folder with graphics is opened in "" filmstrip "" or "" thumbnail "" mode in various Windows operating systems , which will later cause the bags not to validate . After files are delivered on external hard drives , home institutions have one week to verify manifest files for errors in checksum validation and to move the digital files to secure storage on their own servers . Home institutions should notify scanning institutions when they have validated files so that the scanning institutions can dump the files from their own drives . After one week , if scanning institutions have not heard from home institutions , they should call to verify that it 's ok to dump the files . There is no deadline for quality control of scanned images . If a home institution finds issues with scanned images after files have been dumped by the scanning institution , they will simply resend the hollingers with issues for rescanning along with a note on the transfer spreadsheet ."	Information/Explanation
1238	"Cosmetic dentistry is the art and science of reshaping smiles for function , beauty , and enhanced self-confidence . Even the most minor cosmetic dentistry treatments can make a big difference in the health and appearance of your smile . Even if the change is subtle , you 'll find yourself smiling bigger and more often . Your smile can have a tremendous impact on how you feel about your appearance , how you act towards others , and , ultimately , how you view yourself . Improving your smile can do wonders for your overall attitude and appearance . Your Dentist Makes All the Difference It takes an extremely skilled dentist and a highly trained eye to provide pleasing cosmetic dentistry results . Dr. Doolin and Dr. Haddad have completed LVI coursework that gives them expertise possessed by less than 1 % of dentists nationwide . This distinguished level of dentistry education allows Rochester Advanced Dentistry to provide you with the smile of your dreams . If you have ever thought about changing the appearance of your teeth , let us help you make a confident , informed decision about your smile . Do n't wait another day to start smiling with confidence . Why Improve Your Smile ? Increased self-confidence , better general health , and an enhancement in your quality of life are all benefits of excellent dental care . When you smile easily and often , people tend to relax more around you and respond more positively to you . So removing any smile inhibitions you have is a step towards better social relationships . Want to improve your smile minus the anxiety ? Learn more about sedation dentistry , an innovative and safe way to have your cosmetic dentistry procedures performed in total relaxation . Trust your smile to the expertise of a cosmetic dentistry team that is willing to go the extra mile to give you a beautiful smile . Call or email Rochester Advanced Dentistry today for your personal smile makeover consultation in Rochester , Rochester Hills , Troy , and Oakland , Macomb and Shelby Township areas . Cosmetic Dentistry Blog Recent Entries Services Performed Kathy was referred to us by her sister who also had a Smile Makeover . She had always been self-conscious about her crooked teeth and gummy smile . Unfortunately , like a lot of people , she stopped wearing her retainers after her braces and was very unhappy with the shifting of her teeth . She did not want braces again so with 10 porcelain veneers , we provided her instant orthodontics . Now she has a smile that she is proud of and one that enhances her overall beauty ! Services Performed Karl had a lot of older dental work throughout his mouth that was failing . Due to trauma earlier in life , he lost his front tooth and had a porcelain with metal bridge placed that was unsightly . After his initial treatment conference , we decided that some of his surrounding front teeth should be addressed in order to give him the healthy and youthful smile that he once had . With all - porcelain crowns and a porcelain bridge , we gave this man the proper shape , size and colored teeth that he desired . This is a perfect example showing how advanced dentistry can improve older-style dental work . Services Performed Elaine had been waiting for years to address her smile . She knew she had many dental issues , but was very nervous about going to the dentist . Elaine had older crowns and several missing teeth and was looking for answers . Porcelain veneers and dental implants were the solutions to her cosmetic concerns . With sedation dentistry , we were able to give Elaine the smile she dreamed of without any anxiety or discomfort . Services Performed Bob came to us searching for a cosmetic solution for his severely worn-down teeth . As you can see , due to severe teeth grinding and older dental work , not only was his smile affected , but so was his entire bite . After showing Bob that his case was as much functional as it was cosmetic , he knew that it was important to address his bite as well as his smile . Services Performed Ashley was a severe grinder with numerous dental concerns . Even at her young age , the damage to her teeth was extensive and made her very self-conscious of her smile . When we discussed her options , porcelain veneers were the perfect solution to give her the smile she was looking for . Now she has the youthful and healthy smile that someone her age should have . Services Performed Dan came to our office concerned with the severe wear he had on his teeth . He felt that his smile "" looked old and worn down . "" Dan was only 35 years old and due to his severe grinding habit and TMJ Symptoms , his teeth were being destroyed . With a combination of porcelain veneers and all porcelain crowns , we rebuilt Danny's teeth and gave him the smile a man his age should have . Danny now has the confidence to smile again . Services Performed Stephanie arrived in "" temporary veneers "" from a dentist in Boston . She came to us for our opinion on her shocking situation . Stephanie's temporaries were appalling ! We showed her that our temporary veneers are identical versions of the final veneers , and she knew she was in the right place . With 8 porcelain veneers , we gave this stunning girl the smile that rightfully complimented her beauty ! Services Performed Tom had always been embarrassed of his smile . His teeth were stained from smoking and coffee , and he had older , failing dental work throughout his mouth . For years , he hid his smile in photos and even grew his mustache to hide his teeth . When he came to his initial treatment consultation hmurre was completely blown away when he learned about how porcelain veneers and crowns could give him the smile he was looking for . Services Performed Eve is a beautiful woman whose teeth had started to make her self-conscious of herself . Older dental work , normal wear and tear , and overall staining had made Eve realize that her smile was n't what it once was . She wanted to have that youthful smile she once had . With 10 porcelain veneers , Eve was given the smile she desired . Take a look at the improvement in Eve's smile , and how it has added to her overall beauty ! Services Performed John was referred to our office by his orthodontist to discuss smile makeover options . John had never been happy with the spacing between his teeth due to their alignment and size , nor the chipping away of previously placed bonding . With a combination of traditional orthodontic treatment and porcelain veneers we were able to close the remaining spaces between the teeth , improving their shape and color . Now John has the smile he always wanted . Services Performed Maria first came to our office looking for ways to improve the appearance of her smile . She was unsatisfied with the severe spacing and misalignment of her teeth . After discussing different treatment options Maria choose to pursue a combination of orthodontics , dental implants and porcelain veneers to complete her smile makeover . The final result is a beautiful , natural looking smile that compliments her vibrant personality . Services Performed Jason had debated about addressing his teeth for many years . He was never happy with the position , shape or color of his teeth and wanted a good solution to give him the confident smile he was looking for . After discussing his options with Dr. Haddad , together they decided that 10 porcelain veneers was the best treatment for him . Disclaimer : Rochester Advanced Dentistry's website provides information on Cosmetic Dentistry in Rochester , Rochester Hills , Oakland Township , Troy , Shelby , Oakland County and Macomb County , Michigan . This information is not to be taken as medical advice ."	Promotion
611	Cerebral Palsy : Ashley's story Hello ! My name is Ashley , and I have cerebral palsy . That 's a problem that you ca n't catch , but one that makes it extra hard for me to do things that are really easy for you , like drinking from a cup , or speaking so that people can understand me . I 've been the only wheelchair user in my school since preschool . I ca n't walk because I was born too early , so instead of my legs , I use the wheelchair to get me where I want to go . I 've had to miss a lot of school because of operations . Just last year I had a spinal fusion , and I missed three months of school . Luckily , I love to spend time on the computer , so I had plenty to do . I also love to enter contests , and have even won quite a few of them ! I have a lot of friends in school , and I am very involved in my church , my youth group , and girl scouts . You can see that I 'm really busy , and that I try not to let my medical problems get in the way ! I just wish kids would invite me over to hang out . I understand that their homes are n't wheelchair accessible , but I could hang out on a nice day outside . Luckily , I have a few friends who do invite me over . And boys ? Well , I wish that they 'd ask me out on a date ! I enjoy listening to CDs and the radio . My mum keeps me active . I have done adaptive skiing , horseback riding , ice skating , wave running , boating , fishing , sledding , and roller coasters . I feel lucky that I have parents who are into helping me do most everything that anyone else can do . When I grow up , I want to be a sports journalist . Then I would get to enjoy my sports , and have a good paying job !!	Opinion/Argumentation
313	Good sea views from this delightful little property set back up a private path between 2 other houses and about 25yds from the hustle and bustle of the actual sea front . Very conveniently situated close to all village amenities . Panoramic sea views from the secluded patio at the rear of the property and from the adjoining hillside garden . Lower ground level Bedroom with good quality double bed , double wardrobe , chest of drawers and bedside table . Entrance door level Living room with sea view . Good quality double sofa bed . Wardrobe , built in cupboard and ottoman provide ample storage . Dining table and seating for four . A wood burning stove , will keep you nice and warm should you need it . F uel is not provided . Bathroon with wc , shower , shaver point , heated towel rail , large airing cupboard . Kitchen with pine storage units and worktops , fridge / freezer , spin dryer and microwave . Nightstorage heating provided Patio with barbecue , summerhouse , garden furniture . Parking . There are some unrestricted on-street spaces directly opposite the approach path , some limited duration parking in the village square , a large local authority free park beside the cliff path about 5 minutes walk from the cottage and another fair sized park at the village hall 300yds . , away on Gerrans Hill about 50p per night via honesty box	Promotion
86	"Iran Cuts Oil Exports to UK , France Iran has stopped oil exports to British and French companies , the Islamic republic's oil ministry said on Sunday . A statement the ministry's website that Iran , OPEC's second biggest oil producer after Saudi Arabia , would sell oil to "" new customers . "" Iran's English-language television station Press TV said the move was "" in line with the decision to end crude exports to six European states . "" The European Union said last month it would stop importing Iranian crude from July 1 in a bid to force Iran to agree to halt its nuclear program . Western powers suspect Iran of seeking to create a nuclear bomb but Tehran insists its program is peaceful . Iranian media reported on Wednesday that Iran had cut oil exports to the Netherlands , Greece , France , Portugal , Spain and Italy in response to the EU oil embargo , but the country's oil ministry later denied this . The 27-nation bloc currently buys about 20 percent of Iran's oil exports ."	News
414	Association of Spina Bifida & Hydrocephalus ( S. E. Region Office ) ASBAH is the Association for Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus . We are the national organisation providing information and advice about Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus to individuals , families and carers via a network of advisers . Our unique services are targeted towards : Support to parents before and around the birth of their baby , or diagnosis of the condition ; Support to the child and family on educational matters ; Specialised information & help on health matters ; Helping young people access services to progress towards control of their lives and much more . more information Isle of Wight Association For Spina Bifida & Hydrocephalus	Promotion
499	"Contributions have risen from £ 5 . 3bn to £ 6bn in a year Employers' contributions to pension schemes have risen by 25 % during the past two years , according to research published on Monday . PENSIONS IN CRISIS 75 % of final salary schemes will close within five years ( Hermes ) Only a fifth of people under 34 are concerned about their future retirement ( Mercer ) People from ethnic minorities are at higher risk of pensioner poverty ( Pensions Minister ) Get more from BBC News Online's pensions website And in the past year they increased to £ 6bn from £ 5 . 3bn , the survey of 339 schemes suggested . Incomes Data Services said its study showed the "" vast scale "" of company money flowing into pension schemes . However , IDS says the rise is nothing to do with generosity on the part of the companies concerned . Instead , it reflects the way many companies took £ 18bn in "" pension holidays "" during the 1990s boom , using the rising price of investments to justify halting their contributions or even taking money out of their funds . More than a quarter of the total payout in the 24 months under review was for "" special contributions "" , to make up for shortfalls and to cover early retirement and other contingencies . Those "" special contributions "" account for more than the total rise in overall contributions . Radical action The survey also highlights the fact that one out of every 10 schemes receive no employer contributions at all . Pensions have become a major concern of trade unions following the closure of many schemes that guaranteed employees a fixed proportion of their final salaries on retirement . And Britain's biggest manufacturing union , Amicus , is holding a conference in March to press for better schemes . Joint general secretary Derek Simpson said : "" Employers have a moral obligation , as do employees , to make provision for retirement income . Pensions minister Andrew Smith has said the government will consider "" radical and concerted action "" to shore up final salary pension schemes . But Mr Simpson said : "" The government must legislate to make this happen . "" The consequences of not doing so will be disastrous for individuals and the economy . """	News
1172	Dear Scholars and Researchers , Warmest Greetings from ICSGSC 2017 ! This is 2017 IEEE International Conference on Smart Grid and Smart Cities ( ICSGSC 2017 ) conference committee . We are very pleased to tell you that ICSGSC 2017 will be held in Singapore during July 23-26 , 2017 . For the past few years , smart grids have been the main topic of fervent research and development at both industrial and academic level . The smart grid is envisaged to be the next generation electric grid for Smart Cities . It enables the smart integration of conventional power generation , renewable generation , distributed generation , energy storage , transmission , distribution and demand management . The benefits of smart grid include the enhanced reliability and resilience , higher intelligence and optimized control , decentralized operation , higher operational efficiency , more efficient demand management , and better power quality . However , all these prospected transformations also bring with them numerous challenges and opportunities . Proceedings After a careful reviewing process , all accepted papers after proper registration and presentation , will be submitted in the ICSGSC 2017 conference Proceedings by IEEE , and reviewed by IEEE Xplore and Ei Compendex . Submission ICSGSC 2017 is now accepting manuscript submissions . Please submit your full paper to us : csgsc@zhconf.ac.cn	Promotion
969	Every user has been allotted a quota depending on their course requirements . You can view your quota ( and see how much of it you have used ) by the following method : Double-click on the icon on the Desktop labelled ' My Computer ' . A window will open , showing in its right pane a list of all of the file systems to which you are currently connected . Double-click on the entry which is labelled ' xxx on ugs5 ( U : ) . You will now see a list of your files on the U : ( network ) drive . In the left hand pane , an annotated pie chart shows how much storage space you have in total , and how much of this you have used . If your quota is insufficient for your studying needs , approach your tutor or the person running the course for which you need the extra storage ; if they consider that your request is justified , they will arrange for your quota to be increased . If you have any comments about this template , please contact the Corporate Web Team .	Instruction
1199	"Thank you for giving a full life ! Haiti 3 It 's a fact . A full life feels good . And because of that , it 's so satisfying to know that when you give to Feed The Hungry , you do more than just give food . Through nourishing meals , an education for their future , and the opportunity to know Jesus , you give thousands of the world's hungriest children the chance to live a full life . And that feels very , very good ! "" You open your hand and satisfy the desires of every living thing "" ( Psalm 145 : 16 NIV ) ."	Promotion
491	They flee here for safety but are sent back to face death Zimbabwe's democrats live in fear of beatings and murder . But if they seek asylum in Britain , they risk being bundled onto the first flight to Harare - where Mugabe's agents lie in wait . Paul Harris and Martin Bright Sunday January 13 , 2002 The Observer They were waiting for him at the airport , just as he feared . Gerald Muketiwa was still recovering from the eight-hour flight to Harare when British immigration officers handed him over to their Zimbabwean counterparts . But the airport officials were not what they seemed . They were members of Zimbabwe's feared Central Intelligence Organisation . Muketiwa was a youth organiser for the opposition Movement for Democratic Change ( MDC ) and had tried to claim asylum in Britain . Instead of offering sanctuary , Britain deported him . The Zimbabwean secret police had been monitoring his progress and now was their chance . As he was whisked off for interrogation , one of the CIO men leaned over and told Muketiwa with a smile : ' We 've been looking for you , Mr Muketiwa . You have sold out our country and you are going to prison for a long time . What have you been saying in the UK ? ' Muketiwa's tale , recounting last week from a secret location in South Africa , sounds extraordinary , but an Observer investigation has discovered that scores of members of opposition parties in Zimbabwe face being sent back to President Mugabe's regime with little regard for their safety . Some already have been . Most of them justifiably say they face imprisonment , torture or death upon their return . The CIO monitors every flight to Harare from London , looking for deportees . Passenger lists are passed to agents in the airport before landing . They are then met as they come off the planes . Such facts have been ignored by the British Government . Attempts are made almost daily to send card-carrying MDC members back to Harare from Gatwick and Heathrow . In many cases the deportees' claims have been rejected outright as ' manifestly unfounded ' , despite their MDC credentials and the clear evidence of killings and beatings meted out to MDC supporters in Zimbabwe . This has brought calls from many campaigners for deportations to be suspended . In other cases deportees are put on flights before they have had time to call their lawyers or are discouraged from speaking publicly about their plight . Some deportees say they have been lied to in order to persuade them onto flights . Despite Foreign Office warnings of the deteriorating situation in Zimbabwe , the Home Office is using its own assessment , which has not been updated since October . Even some Labour politicians warn that the Home Office is now out-of-date and ignoring the growing dangers . ' The Home Office tends to be slow to change . It is self-evident that there is a major difference between the Foreign Office and Home Office view on what is going on in Zimbabwe , ' said Neil Gerrard , Labour head of parliament's refugee group . The result is a processing system that human rights groups claim is designed to send back Zimbabweans as quickly as possible with little regard for their lives . ' It is hard to imagine that a Home Office official could feel happy in their own mind about sending them to Zimbabwe . It is a nearly catastrophic situation , ' said a spokesman for Amnesty International . People who try to work against the system are even more forthright . Lawyer Zoe Stevens has eight MDC Zimbabwean clients . All their claims were immediately rejected . She is fighting their appeals . She believes she might be fighting for their lives . ' We might as well cut out the middlemen and torture them ourselves . I feel ashamed about it all , ' she said . For Godfrey Dube the experience of British justice was brutal . An MDC member bearing scars from government mob beatings he received in Zimbabwe , Dube was refused asylum and led onto a British Airways flight on Christmas Eve . Terrified of being sent home he struggled and was beaten . Eventually , handcuffed and bleeding he was put on the plane where he begged passengers to help him . In the end a concerned BA hostess insisted he could not fly . ' When she saw I was bleeding , she made a fuss and took me off . Then I rang home to my mother that night and she said they ( the CIO ) had been waiting for me , ' Dube said . But such stories do not stop the attempted deportations . They happen almost every night . Last Wednesday Paul Chidziva , an opposition activist for the small Bulawayo-based Liberty Party , was just minutes from being bundled onto a South African Airways plane when the airline refused to take him . He believes his chances would have been small had he been sent back . Mugabe's men would have pounced . ' Only 1 per cent of people get out of their hands , ' he said . Chidziva was then told he had five days to speak to his lawyers . Yet a second attempt was made to deport him less than 24 hours later . This time Virgin Atlantic refused to take him and contacted Amnesty International to complain . Despite on Friday being given the right to a judicial review , immigration officials again sought to deport him that night . Only after a last-minute phone call from The Observer was he taken off a flight for the third time in a week . Not all are so lucky . Last Monday night three Zimbabweans were deported . They were sent to Harare . It is not known what happened to them . There are around 180 Zimbabweans stranded in British detention centres . Their stories are similar . Most are low-ranking MDC members , usually teachers or journalists , who have fled the relentless pressure of Mugabe's thugs . They end up in places like Yarl's Wood Immigration Detention Centre . Sited at the end of a long and winding country lane near Bedford , the former army base is a grim and forbidding place . Even the system is against them . Last week campaigner Lord Avebury officially complained about vital faxes from lawyers being delayed by up to 36 hours before they are handed to detainees . As some claimants are only given 24 hours notice before being put on planes , such a delay could be a matter of life and death . Contact with the outside world is discouraged . All phone calls have to be paid for . Avebury recently phoned and asked one detainee to compile a list of Zimbabweans inside Yarl's Wood . That night the detainee was woken at 1 . 45am to be quizzed on the call and then had his right of movement restricted . Avebury has launched a complaint about this treatment , too . Even social visitors to Yarl's Wood are not allowed to take any possessions with them to meet the detainees . When The Observer visited Ngulube last week , not even a notebook was allowed in . No reason was given . Such conditions , coupled with the boredom , a regimented lifestyle and poor food , can have a devastating effect on the inmates , most of whom are young professionals who have fled for their lives . ' I know people in here who are now addicted to sleeping pills . We are all used to having our own lives , working . It 's terrible being in here and just doing nothing , ' Ngulube said . But the greatest fear is still the dreaded CIO . And they have a long reach . Speaking from inside Campsfield Immigration Detention Centre near Oxford , one Zimbabwean detainee detailed allegations that a fellow inmate was a CIO spy , posing as an asylum-seeker to gain information on MDC members detained in Britain . Kenneth , who would only agree to his first name being used , said his suspicions were raised when a fellow Zimbabwean detainee took him aside . ' He started saying that the immigration authorities were asking questions about me and when I checked this out I discovered it was not true , ' he said . Kenneth said he then told Campsfield officials about the incident and they admitted that they knew infiltration was a problem . The suspected agent later disappeared from the centre . It is not known if he was removed by the authorities to another centre or deported . Immigration officials said they could not comment on individual cases . Detainees who spoke to The Observer said CIO agents came to Britain to claim asylum knowing full well that they will be detained and enter the detention system . They said the spies have been known to pass information to the Zimbabwean embassy and threaten dissidents with reprisals should they return home . It is an allegation being taken seriously . The Refugee Council believes that several foreign intelligence agencies have infiltrated Britain's asylum system hunting for dissidents who have escaped their grasp at home . They believe it is only to be expected that the CIO would be one of them . ' It clearly happens . There will be people in the system who are working for their governments , ' said Nick Hardwick , chief executive of the Refugee Council . Since mid-December Amnesty International has documented at least 10 killings of opposition supporters by pro-government militia . They include Laban Chiweta , burned to death in the town of Trojan Mine , and Milton Chambati , whose head was hacked off by so-called war veterans . Things are getting worse . Mugabe has to call a presidential election before the end of March . A brutal crackdown is in place , stamping on the remaining civil liberties in the economically devastated country . ' It is almost a civil war situation , ' an Amnesty spokesman said . Not that the Home Office agrees . There are no plans to consider a suspension of deportations until the situation becomes safer , despite a flood of appeals to do so from politicians of all parties and from some of the largest human rights groups in the world , including the United Nations High Commission for Refugees . ' There is a very real and immediate threat to the lives and safety of some of those who return . It is more serious than any other country's situation at the moment , ' Hardwick said . Returning could be a death sentence . Gerald Muketiwa almost discovered that . In the airport police station where he was being held he asked to use a toilet . To his amazement they agreed . Then , folding up already tattered and torn clothes , he squeezed through a tiny window and ran for his life . ' I had to get out of there . I just knew I had to take my chance . These were CIO and these people are no joke , ' he said . Muketiwa escaped with his life . Others may not , say critics , and Britain will be to blame . · Some names have been changed in this article to protect identities . Britain's Zimbabwe shame 13.01.2002 : Britain in dock over expulsions 13.01.2002 : They flee here for safety but are sent back to face death Asylum seekers speak out 13.01.2002 : Soccer hero - I 'll be killed as a traitor at home 13.01.2002 : Gerald's story : How I was handed back to Mugabe's men 13.01.2002 : Kenneth's story : they spy on us in detention here 06.01.2002 : Exiles cry freedom over the airwaves More on Zimbabwe Special report : Zimbabwe 20.03.2002 : Sunder Katwala : Zimbabwe and the Commonwealth 11.01.2002 : Andrew Meldrum : Defying Mugabe 09.01.2002 : Mark Oliver : Zimbabwe press review 02.12.2001 : Fury as Zimbabweans sent to ' certain death ' 30.12.2001 : Mugabe regime tortures activist deported by UK 23.12.2001 : Mugabe defiant despite Bush sanctions 16.12.2001 : Mugabe declares ' total war ' on rivals 25.11.2001 : Bill Saidi : Where journalists are ' terrorists ' 28.10.2001 : John Prendergast : Only sanctions can stop Mugabe 19.08.2001 : Jason Burke in Zimbabwe : Mugabe's war on his own people 19.08.2001 : Leader : Mugabe's target Special reports Special report : Zimbabwe Asylum : myths and reality - Observer special	News
643	Mark's Story ( Coverage : UK Wide ) I really do n't want people to think that I am blaming my parents , because what I 've done is my responsibility . But right from the start the most important people in my life had liberal views when it came to drug culture . And that makes a difference when you are growing up . Maybe if they had n't been so relaxed about drugs and made me work at school .... but then again who is to say that I would n't have rebelled ? I was about 14 the first time I got caught shoplifting little toys from a newsagents . I got a conditional warning from the police . Then a while later I broke into a bubble gum machine at 2am – I 'd blagged my mum saying I was stopping overnight with a mate . A passing taxi driver alerted the police and I got a caution . I did n't see myself as a criminal then . I did my first burglary when I was 15 – it was a scout hut . But did n't get caught . After a while I started experimenting with other drugs and associating with much older drug users . I was still going to school when I was n't coming down from the previous night's session . I do n't know how I never got myself suspended or expelled . At least then I could have blamed not getting any qualifications on that . By the time I left school I was taking anything I could get my hands on : speed , LSD , mushrooms , alcohol and prescription pills and potions . I nearly died on one occasion ; I 'd taken 160mg of Valium - probably enough to knock a horse off its feet . The next thing I knew was three days later being slapped and beaten by friends and family to get my adrenalin pumping through my body . I had been unconscious . I dread to think what could have happened if I had been on my own or if nobody had cared at the time . Heroin and crack were n't really around then like they are now . So I never contemplated trying either of them when I was younger . I had always perceived heroin and crack cocaine as a rich man's drug . I thought it was totally out of my league . In any case at the time I was enjoying how my life was going and I did n't realise then that I had a drug problem . I was n't going out committing crime to feed my drug use because most of it was given to me . So I was going through life in a permanently stoned state , not worrying about the future and thinking everything was okay . Little did I know what was ahead for me . I lived on and off with my mum . She and Dad split up when I was eight and she remarried when I was 19 . We moved up from the South to the Midlands . I started work as a trainee printer . I started hanging out with the well known criminal fraternity and made contacts . This is when I got into the heavy end of the drug scene and started with heroin . My first big crime was against a bank . I was done for theft and using a false instrument – I managed to cash cheques for £ 10 , 000 . I got two years probation and was ordered to pay £ 3 , 000 compensation . Then I got a 21 month prison sentence for a dwelling house burglary which I 'd done to get money to buy heroin . I got 84 days to run concurrently for not paying my compensation . But by then I was n't going to be able to pay off a fine while I was paying for heroin . It was scary in prison at first . On the first night I tried to hang myself with bed sheets . I was so frightened of coming off heroin and knew I would n't get any help in prison . I was put in a special cell where I was observed for 5-6 days , and then moved back into the general prison population . I did n't get assessed , or see a psychiatrist or get anti-depressants . I did feel better though once I 'd come off heroin after about two weeks . Although I did know what I was doing I was so in need of drugs I 'd almost do anything . It 's a difficult thing to explain to someone who is n't an addict . It makes you do things you know are wrong because somehow you just do n't seem to care about other people anymore . You see I 'd borrowed money and sold stuff , so I 'd exhausted all my options . I felt I had no option but to turn to crime . I went back to mum 's after prison . I stayed clean for two weeks and then started using again . Within four weeks I was back inside again for another burglary . I got two and a half years . I was never worried about doing the time – just coming off the heroin . I 'd work as a cleaner inside . I think I still had depressive and suicidal tendencies but never did anything again . I got a basic computer qualification while I was in prison . I did the lay prison programme twice too , a four-month rehabilitation package . Then I started thinking about my future . I did n't like being in prison . When I got out that time I was determined to socialise with a different set of people . I started working for a local building company , it was a good job and I earned good money legally . But I was n't used to it – and what did I spend it on ? Heroin and crack . My life took a major downward spiral as I got the sack and was unemployed with a massive habit . I did more burglaries and got caught again and was remanded in prison for eight months . Then in Crown Court I was given the opportunity to start a Drug Treatment and Testing Order ( DTTO ) run by the probation service . It has been helpful . At first I had to go in every day and also have my urine tested by nurses twice weekly to check if I was still using . I 've also had to see a doctor regularly and I 've had some counselling and treatment from psychiatric nurses which has helped . The probation staff got me on the 12 week Princes Trust Programme which involved a week-long residential team building exercise – we looked at issues around disability , health and safety , food hygiene , first aid and blind awareness . I led a community project with the Princes Trust , clearing an overgrown graveyard which was thought to be used by drug users . So now local people can use it again and feel safe . It felt good to be a leader on something so constructive . I want to experience that feeling again . My Probation Officer said I also had to attend an Enhanced Thinking Skills Programme . This involved working in a group with other offenders for 22 sessions . Although I knew a lot of it already , it 's conditioned me to put stuff into practice . Thinking things through before I act . Considering consequences , long-term and short-term . Taking responsibility . Considering others . I 'm sorry for what I 've done and who I 've hurt . I am going to get as many qualifications as I can and hope to go into youth and community work . I reckon with my experiences I can hopefully help others . Attending the Princes Trust Programme has really given me some confidence . I was surprised at how good it was . I have n't had a habit for 18 months now , and have been completely clean of heroin for 6 months now . I still have a few bad days . I visited a few old mates recently who are still taking the gear . I just feel cold towards heroin now . There 's no more crime in my life . I am on benefit – so things are tight . But I have a good girlfriend now and she knows all about my past and is prepared to stand by me . I 've got a decent flat from a housing association in a nice quiet area away from any drug users . Probation really have helped me a lot . I 'm so very grateful as my life has been turned around .	Opinion/Argumentation
830	During PSE4 CoRWM invited comments on its Draft Recommendations . Reports of the responses These documents are provided in Adobe's PDF format . If you do not have Adobe Acrobat , you may download it here . Report of the Citizens' Panels Citizens' Panel Third Meeting Summary Report ( PDF 310 Kb ) Report of the National Stakeholder Forum Feedback from the fourth National Stakeholder Forum 9th-10th May 2006 ( PDF 195 Kb ) Transcript of the fourth National Stakeholder Forum ( PDF 717 Kb ) Reports of the Round Table Meetings Feedback from the England Wales Round Table Meeting 12th May 2006 ( PDF 177 Kb ) Feedback from the Scotland Round Table Meeting 19th May 2006 ( PDF 160 Kb ) Transcript of England Wales Round Table Meeting 12th May 06 ( PDF 236 Kb ) Transcript of Scotland Round Table Meeting 19th May 06 ( PDF 187 Kb ) Other Associated Documents Opportunity to Comment Compilation Report , CoRWM Opportunity to Comment May 06 ( PDF 618 Kb ) and Appendix 1 ( PDF 720 Kb )	Information/Explanation
1484	"Featured eBooks Young and in Debt Should You Get A Pre-Nuptial Agreement ? Prenuptial agreements are not romantic , but they are a practical way to establish how money and property will be divided in the event of a divorce . The first rule of thumb with a pre-nuptial agreement is to remember that it is simply a financial contract , not a romantic statement . Your desire to have a prenuptial agreement may be related to how many assets you have going into your marriage . Let's look at a few scenarios . Meet Cindy and Joe , engaged in their 30s . Cindy bought a townhome in her 20s with a $ 10 , 000 down payment . The townhouse has since appreciated by approximately $ 30 , 000 . Joe has always rented . Cindy and Joe plan to remain in the townhome for at least the first few years of their marriage . Cindy would like to protect the investment that she made in her 20s , should she and John divorce . John is concerned as well . He has been helping with the monthly mortgage payment and will continue to do so after they are married . How can both of their financial interests be protected by a prenuptial agreement ? Cindy and Joe meet with an attorney who proposes a solution . The prenuptial agreement states that Cindy enters the marriage with $ 40 , 000 invested in the townhome , which is not to be shared by John should they divorce . Appreciation and equity added after the wedding will be split equally , in the case of divorce . Cindy should not feel selfish for protecting her investment . This is money that she earned over many years , through hard work and savvy investing before she met John . Meet Anna and Juan . Anna is in her 20s and Juan is in his 30s . Neither own a home or have large bank accounts . Juan has worked at the same company for 15 years and has already built up a sizeable pension . Juan would like to hold back his pension from Anna , in the case of divorce . Both Juan and Anna plan for her to be a stay-at-home mom after their first child is born . Anna is concerned that she will not be contributing to her own pension in this scenario , and wants protection from being excluded from Juan's pension . The prenuptial agreement drafted by their attorneys states that Cindy is entitled to claim half of the portion of Juan's pension that accumulates after they marry . Put your kids first ! Prenuptial agreements are especially important if you have children . Do n't jeopardize your kids' college fund , home and / or future by marrying without a prenuptial agreement . In the event of a death and / or divorce , your kids could be big losers if you do n't plan ahead . Seek pre-nuptial and financial counseling before walking down the aisle . The best place to iron out your financial concerns is with a neutral third party . Get your own lawyer . A pre-nuptial agreement should not cost more than a few hundred dollars per person ( unless you have significant assets ) . You should have your own lawyer representing your needs . Prenuptial agreements are about self-respect and being fair . They are also a good vehicle to see how your fiancé reacts to "" what if "" financial scenarios . If you do n't like what you see , be careful about moving ahead with the marriage . If you or your fiancé have major debt , consider discussing how that debt will be managed and / or eliminated during the marriage . Establish financial priorities that you can both agree on , from the beginning . Order his and hers credit reports and crunch the numbers before all the wedding bills start piling up . Do not run out an open joint credit right after marriage ."	Instruction
941	If you are already a volunteer then please click the button and then enter your password to enter the Existing Volunteers Section . Here you will find all sorts of useful resources , events and news to help support you in your volunteering role . Forgotten Password If you have forgotten the password then please contact the administrator by entering your email address and clicking SEND Email :	Instruction
761	My area of interest is the use of the atomic structure of biological macromolecules , as derived from crystallographic studies combined with computational modelling , to learn about the factors which determine the chemical nature of their interactions and their mechanisms of action . This work has been applied to enzyme-substrate interactions , the formation of catalytically essential post-translational modifications , binding of specific metal ions and the structure of DNA-binding proteins .	Information/Explanation
991	An Israeli helicopter missile strike has killed a Palestinian militant in his car in Gaza City . Witnesses say six other Palestinians were wounded in the blast Sunday . The dead militant , Khalid Abu Salima , was a member of the military wing of Hamas , the Ezzedin al-Qassam Brigades . Israeli military officials say he played a role in the manufacture of improvised rockets used in attacks on Israelis . Earlier Sunday , Israeli troops killed a Palestinian man near the Karni crossing just inside the Gaza Strip . Israeli military officials say the man was among a group of Palestinians approaching a security fence to try to plant a bomb . The Karni Crossing is a major Israeli-Palestinian border area , where workers and goods cross between the two areas daily . Story supplied by :	News
1450	Orpheus Gustave Moreau drew much attention when he painted Orpheus in 1865 . The intriguing composition regards the famous Greek legend of Orpheus , a poet and musician so talented that he was believed to be able to charm beasts into submission . Moreau , known for his wild imagination , created a unique ending to the myth , and depicted it on canvas . The story goes that when Orpheus charmed the maenads , ( seductive female followers of the god of wine ) , and then refused their advances , they tore him apart and threw his head and lyre into a nearby stream . While most artists chose to paint the horrific events of the raging women murdering Orpheus , Gustave Moreau opted to depict his personal idea of what happened after the tragic slaying . He includes a young girl dressed in delicate oriental garments who , after having salvaged Orpheuss decapitated head and lyre from the stream , lovingly stares at it with a sad facial expression that could signify regret or pity . The similarity of the two faces not only captivates viewers with its eeriness , but it also has them questioning the artists intention . This likeness may be symbolic in nature , but Moreau offers no explanation and leaves its interpretation to the onlookers imagination . The paintings sombre background is meticulously detailed , and harmonizes with the mystical mood of the painting . The composition is diagonally in sync ; the musicians at the top left of the canvas are balanced by the two turtles at the bottom right . Analysis With respect to Gustave Moreaus style , the Musee dOrsays website states : In Orpheus , we sense the emergence of a semi-fantastic world with disturbing atmospheres , impregnated with ambiguous charms . The golden chiaroscuro , complex composition and sensual yet mystic mood that characterised Moreau's mature style about 1870 are already in place here . For all these reasons , Moreau counts as a decisive figure in the Symbolist movement . Musee dOrsay	Information/Explanation
1586	"Ed Beach's "" Just Jazz "" features all the Jazz Greats : These recorded radio broadcasts feature many of the greatest Jazz artists of the 20th century , and all are presented by the famous , Jazz radio announcer and lover of this music who has all the dates , places , leaders and sidemen , important and informative historical information as well as entertaining anecdotes related to the times , the music and the artists . All shows are commercial free and now available on CD . Some two hour shows and some 4 hours ! Catskill Mountains over the Hudson River photo by Joy Scarano For a complete list of available shows , write to me . These are a treasure to be savored over and over ; timeless ! For further information contact : tomscaranomusic@yahoo.com or use the contact form ."	Promotion
829	i . Books Co-editor of Reactions to Revolution ( Munich , forthcoming ) . Editor of A Companion to Eighteenth-Century Britain ( Oxford , 2002 ) . Co-editor ( with Michael Lynch ) of The Challenge to Westminster ( East Linton , 2000 ) . Editor of Britain and the American Revolution ( London , 1998 ) . The Politics of the People in Eighteenth-Century Britain ( London and New York , 1994 and 1995 ) . Editor of Britain and the French Revolution , 1789-1815 ( Harmondsworth , 1989 ) . Caricatures and the Constitution , 1760-1832 ( Cambridge , 1986 ) . British Radicalism and the French Revolution , 1789-1815 ( Oxford , 1985 ) . Liberty and Property : Political Ideology in Eighteenth-Century Britain ( London and New York , 1977 and 1979 ) . Editor of Politics and Literature in Eighteenth-Century Britain ( London and Totowa , NJ , 1974 ) . Walpole and the Whig Supremacy ( London , 1973 ) . Bolingbroke ( London , 1970 ) . ii . Other works Editor of Constitutional Documents of the United Kingdom , 1776-1849 ( Munich , forthcoming ) . Co-editor ( with W.A. Speck ) of the 18th century section of the Royal Historical Society's British Bibliographies ( Oxford , CD-ROM , 1998 ) . Editor of The Political Works of Thomas Spence ( Newcastle upon Tyne , 1982 ) . Editor of The Correspondence of Sir James Clavering ( Gateshead , 1967 ) . Also author / editor of four pamphlets , 63 essays in books and 68 articles in journals .	Information/Explanation
912	"While she still sat under the Scotchman's eyes a man came up to the door , reaching it as Henchard opened the door of the inner office to admit Elizabeth . The newcomer stepped forward like the quicker cripple at Bethesda , and entered in her stead . She could hear his words to Henchard : "" Joshua Jopp , sir – by appointment – the new manager . "" "" The new manager ! – he 's in his office , "" said Henchard bluntly . "" In his office ! "" said the man , with a stultified air . "" I mentioned Thursday , "" said Henchard ; "" and as you did not keep your appointment , I have engaged another manager . At first I thought he must be you . Do you think I can wait when business is in question ? "" "" You said Thursday or Saturday , sir , "" said the newcomer , pulling out a letter . "" Well , you are too late , "" said the corn-factor . "" I can say no more . "" "" You as good as engaged me , "" murmured the man . "" Subject to an interview , "" said Henchard . "" I am sorry for you – very sorry indeed . But it ca n't be helped . "" There was no more to be said , and the man came out , encountering Elizabeth-Jane in his passage . She could see that his mouth twitched with anger , and that bitter disappointment was written in his face everywhere . Elizabeth-Jane now entered , and stood before the master of the premises . His dark pupils – which always seemed to have a red spark of light in them , though this could hardly be a physical fact – turned indifferently round under his dark brows until they rested on her figure . "" Now then , what is it , my young woman ? "" he said blandly . "" Can I speak to you – not on business , sir ? "" said she . "" Yes – I suppose . "" He looked at her more thoughtfully . "" I am sent to tell you , sir , "" she innocently went on , "" that a distant relative of yours by marriage , Susan Newson , a sailor's widow , is in the town , and to ask whether you would wish to see her . "" The rich rouge-et-noir of his countenance underwent a slight change . "" Oh – Susan is – still alive ? "" he asked with difficulty . "" Yes , sir . "" "" Are you her daughter ? "" "" Yes , sir – her only daughter . "" "" What – do you call yourself – your Christian name ? "" "" Elizabeth-Jane , sir . "" "" Newson ? "" "" Elizabeth-Jane Newson . "" This at once suggested to Henchard that the transaction of his early married life at Weydon Fair was unrecorded in the family history . It was more than he could have expected . His wife had behaved kindly to him in return for his unkindness , and had never proclaimed her wrong to her child or to the world . "" I am – a good deal interested in your news , "" he said . "" And as this is not a matter of business , but pleasure , suppose we go indoors . "" It was with a gentle delicacy of manner , surprising to Elizabeth , that he showed her out of the office and through the outer room , where Donald Farfrae was overhauling bins and samples with the inquiring inspection of a beginner in charge . Henchard preceded her through the door in the wall to the suddenly changed scene of the garden and flowers , and onward into the house . The dining-room to which he introduced her still exhibited the remnants of the lavish breakfast laid for Farfrae . It was furnished to profusion with heavy mahogany furniture of the deepest red-Spanish hues . Pembroke tables , with leaves hanging so low that they well-nigh touched the floor , stood against the walls on legs and feet shaped like those of an elephant , and on one lay three huge folio volumes – a Family Bible , a "" Josephus , "" and a "" Whole Duty of Man . "" In the chimney corner was a fire-grate with a fluted semicircular back , having urns and festoons cast in relief thereon , and the chairs were of the kind which , since that day , has cast lustre upon the names of Chippendale and Sheraton , though , in point of fact , their patterns may have been such as those illustrious carpenters never saw or heard of . "" Sit down – Elizabeth-Jane – sit down , "" he said , with a shake in his voice as he uttered her name , and sitting down himself he allowed his hands to hang between his knees while he looked upon the carpet . "" Your mother , then , is quite well ? "" "" She is rather worn out , sir , with travelling . "" "" A sailor's widow – when did he die ? "" "" Father was lost last spring . "" Henchard winced at the word "" father , "" thus applied . "" Do you and she come from abroad – America or Australia ? "" he asked . "" No. We have been in England some years . I was twelve when we came here from Canada . "" "" Ah ; exactly . "" By such conversation he discovered the circumstances which had enveloped his wife and her child in such total obscurity that he had long ago believed them to be in their graves . These things being clear , he returned to the present . "" And where is your mother staying ? "" "" At the Three Mariners . "" "" And you are her daughter Elizabeth-Jane ? "" repeated Henchard . He arose , came close to her , and glanced in her face . "" I think , "" he said , suddenly turning away with a wet eye , "" you shall take a note from me to your mother . I should like to see her – She is not left very well off by her late husband ? "" His eye fell on Elizabeth's clothes , which , though a respectable suit of black , and her very best , were decidedly old-fashioned even to Casterbridge eyes . "" Not very well , "" she said , glad that he had divined this without her being obliged to express it . He sat down at the table and wrote a few lines , next taking from his pocket-book a five-pound note , which he put in the envelope with the letter , adding to it , as by an afterthought , five shillings . Sealing the whole up carefully , he directed it to "" Mrs. Newson , Three Mariners Inn , "" and handed the packet to Elizabeth . "" Deliver it to her personally , please , "" said Henchard . "" Well , I am glad to see you here , Elizabeth-Jane – very glad . We must have a long talk together – but not just now . "" He took her hand at parting , and held it so warmly that she , who had known so little friendship , was much affected , and tears rose to her aerial-grey eyes . The instant that she was gone Henchard's state showed itself more distinctly ; having shut the door he sat in his dining-room stiffly erect , gazing at the opposite wall as if he read his history there . "" Begad ! "" he suddenly exclaimed , jumping up . "" I did n't think of that . Perhaps these are impostors – and Susan and the child dead after all ! "" However , a something in Elizabeth-Jane soon assured him that , as regarded her , at least , there could be little doubt . And a few hours would settle the question of her mother's identity ; for he had arranged in his note to see her that evening . "" It never rains but it pours ! "" said Henchard . His keenly excited interest in his new friend the Scotchman was now eclipsed by this event , and Donald Farfrae saw so little of him during the rest of the day that he wondered at the suddenness of his employer's moods . In the meantime Elizabeth had reached the inn . Her mother , instead of taking the note with the curiosity of a poor woman expecting assistance , was much moved at sight of it . She did not read it at once , asking Elizabeth to describe her reception , and the very words Mr. Henchard used . Elizabeth's back was turned when her mother opened the letter . It ran thus : – Meet me at eight o ' clock this evening , if you can , at the Ring on the Budmouth road . The place is easy to find . I can say no more now . The news upsets me almost . The girl seems to be in ignorance . Keep her so till I have seen you . M. H. He said nothing about the enclosure of five guineas . The amount was significant ; it may tacitly have said to her that he bought her back again . She waited restlessly for the close of the day , telling Elizabeth-Jane that she was invited to see Mr. Henchard ; that she would go alone . But she said nothing to show that the place of meeting was not at his house , nor did she hand the note to Elizabeth ."	Prose/Lyrical
1593	New Articles Shure Headphones Can Make The Most Dreadful Tasks Enjoyable Shure features a line of corded and wireless headphones that are created for utilization of the expert musician to record music , by the DJ , who performs live shows or for the listening satisfaction of the amateur music enthusiast . The lines of wireless shure headphones that are available function with the use of a base unit as well as a receiver . The base units are created directly into the wireless headphones and are used to deliver a signal to the headphones receiver . The receiver converts the electronic impulse signal that sent from the base unit into an audio signal . The Shure headphone systems are easy for first time wireless users to set up and come with easy to follow guidelines . These wireless headphones from shure must stay within a range parameter of the receiver to be able to function . All wireless devices will have different range capabilities that will depend on the model of wireless headphones and the type of receiver utilized . The Shure headphones hold a range capability of 100 feet to 350 feet , based upon the model you purchase . With these range capabilities , the user is free to walk around the office , work in the yard or around the home , free from constraining wires . The Shure headphones can present you with the ability to get lost in your favorite audio book or perhaps favorite music while tending to tasks that you would otherwise tend to avoid engaging in . These wireless headphones not just aid to make those dreaded works enjoyable , but they also allow you to listen to TV at night at a volume that works well for you and does not wake your slumbering family . If you happen to be interested in purchasing a set of Shure headphones , you can take a look at shure headphones reviews to get an in-depth view of what their firm can give . Find The Appropriate Earphones For Your Personally A wireless headset can give the individual the ability to very easily move about to always get work done without being chained to their desk for fear of missing that important phone call . A wireless headphones model comes with one or two headphone and a microphone . Shure Headphones Helps Make Housekeeping More Enjoyable Shure offers a huge variety of both wired and wireless headphones . If it 's difficult to get a pair that 's best for you , you may take a look at Shure headphones reviews to have a better idea of what each pair of Shure headphones has to offer . Learn To Play The Guitar With The Best Guitar Books The guitar is probably one of the most easily recognized instruments around the world . Just about anybody can identify or describe a guitar . The instrument is not only world renowned but seems to have its roots around the world .	Promotion
1025	An Act to establish a Ministry of Health and Local Government for Northern Ireland ; to abolish the Ministry of Public Security for Northern Ireland ; to make further provision with respect to the assignment and transfer of functions of Government departments ; to provide for the salaries of certain Ministerial offices ; and for purposes connected with the matters aforesaid . [ 9th May 1944 ] S. 1 rep . by 1999 NI 1 S. 2 rep . by SLR 1980 ; 1999 NI 1 S. 3 rep . by SLR ( NI ) 1952 ; 1999 NI 1 F003 Orders for assignment and transfer of functions and other purposes . 4 . -- ( 1 ) The [ F001 chief executive member ] may , from time to time , by [ F001 order ] assign to any department , or transfer to any department from any other department , such functions as appear to [ F001 that member ] to be appropriate for such assignment or transfer ; and each department shall have and may excercise such functions as may be specified by such an [ F001 order ] . ( 2 ) F002 An [ F001 order ] made under this section may make such incidental , consequential and supplemental provisions as may be necessary or expedient for the purpose of giving full effect to this Act or to any assignment or transfer of functions under sub-section ( 1 ) of this section , including provisions -- ( a ) for the modification and adaptation of enactments ; and ( b ) for the transfer of any property , rights and liabilities held , enjoyed or incurred by any department in connection with any functions transferred ; and ( c ) for the carrying on and completion by or on behalf of a department of anything commenced by or on behalf of any other department before a transfer of functions takes effect ; and ( d ) for changing the name by which a department is to be styled ; and ( e ) for the substitution of the name of a department for the name of any other department , or for its former name , in any instrument , contract or legal proceedings made or commenced before the date when a transfer of functions or change of name takes effect . ( 3 ) A certificate issued by a department that any property has been transferred to it by virtue of an [ F001 order ] made under this section shall be conclusive evidence of that fact . Subs . ( 4 ) rep . by SLR 1980 [ F001 ( 5 ) An order under this section shall be subject to negative resolution . ] S. 5 rep . by 1946 c . 11 ( NI ) ; 1999 NI 1 S. 6 rep . by 1999 NI 1 S. 7 rep . by SLR ( NI ) 1952 ; 1999 NI 1	Legal
107	"Chapter 13 Managing Your Device 13.1 Copying and Managing Files Copy files between your device and computer , or copy files to a storage card installed on your device . You can also efficiently manage your files and folders using File Explorer . To copy files using Windows Mobile Device Center or ActiveSync 1 . Connect your device to the computer . 2 . Click File Management > Browse the contents of your device in Windows Mobile Device Center on your computer , or click Explore in ActiveSync on your computer . This displays the content of your device in Windows Explorer on your computer . 3 . To copy a file from your device to your computer : a . Browse the contents of your device , right-click the file you want to copy , and then click Copy . b . Right-click a folder on your computer , and then click Paste . 4 . To copy a file from your computer to your device : a . Browse the folders on your computer , right-click the file you want to copy , and then click Copy . b . Right-click a folder on your device , and then click Paste . 230 Managing Your Device To manage files on your device using File Explorer File Explorer lets you browse and manage the contents of your device . The root folder on the device is named My Device , and contains the following folders : My Documents , Program Files , Windows , and more . 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > File Explorer . 2 . Tap a folder or file to open it . 3 . To return to an upper level folder , tap Up . 4 . To quickly delete , rename , or copy a file , tap and hold the file , and then choose the desired operation on the shortcut menu . To copy or delete multiple files , tap and drag over the desired files , tap and hold the selection , and then choose an option from the menu . To copy files to a storage card 1 . Make sure that the storage card is properly installed on your device . 2 . Connect the device to your computer using the USB cable , select Disk Drive on the Connect to PC screen , and then tap Done . 3 . On your computer , navigate to the removable disk drive , and then start copying files to the storage card . 4 . When finished , disconnect the device from your computer . Managing Your Device 231 13.2 Settings on your Device You can adjust the device settings to suit the way you work . Use the Settings tab to adjust basic device settings . See "" Settings "" in Chapter 3 for details . To see all available settings , tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . Personal tab Icon Description Buttons Assign a program or function to a hardware button or set the function you want to execute ( for instance , lock the device ) when you press and hold the END button . Input Set options for each of the input methods . For instance , you can set the device to play a sound or vibrate when you tap a Full QWERTY or Phone Keypad key . Keyboard Sliding Sound Select a sound to play when you open and close the hardware keyboard . Lock Set a password for your device . Menus Set which programs appear in the Start menu . Note The Start menu is disabled when the TouchFLO 3D Home screen is enabled . To enable the Start menu , tap Start > Settings , tap All Settings > Personal tab > Today > Items tab , and then clear the TouchFLO 3D check box . Owner Information Enter your personal information on your device . Phone Customize phone settings such as the ring tone , or set a PIN number for your SIM card . 232 Managing Your Device Icon Description Sounds & Notifications Enable sounds for events , notifications , and more , and set the type of notification for different events . Today Customize the appearance of the Home screen and the information to display on it . Note You will not see the Today screen when the TouchFLO 3D Home screen is enabled . To display the Today screen , tap Start > Settings button , tap All Settings > Personal tab > Today > Items tab , and then clear the TouchFLO 3D check box . System tab Icon Description About This is where you can see basic information such as the Windows Mobile ® version and type of processor used on your device . You can also specify a name for your device . Auto Volume Control Automatically adjust the recording volume to an even level . Certificates See information about certificates that are installed on your device . Clear Storage Reset your device to factory default settings . Clock & Alarms Set the device clock to the date and time of your locale or to a time zone you are visiting . Alarms can also be set on specified days and times of the week . Customer Feedback Set your device to automatically send information about how you use Windows Mobile . By default , this option is disabled . Device Information See information about the firmware version , hardware , identity , and the duration of calls made on your device . Managing Your Device 233 Icon Description Encryption Encrypt files on your storage card . Encrypted files are only readable on your device . Error Reporting Enable or disable the device's error reporting function . When this function is enabled and a program error occurs , technical data about the state of the program and your computer is logged in a text file and delivered to Microsoft's technical support if you choose to send it . External GPS Set the appropriate GPS communication ports , if required . You may need to do this when there are programs on your device that access GPS data or you have connected a GPS receiver to your device . G-Sensor Recalibrate the G-Sensor of the device . Use this function when auto-rotate is not working properly . Managed Programs Displays the programs that were installed on your device using System Center Mobile Device Manager . Memory Check the device memory allocation and storage card information . Power Check the remaining battery power . You can also set the brightness of the backlight and the timeout for turning off the display ( switching the device to Sleep mode ) to conserve battery power . Regional Settings Set the regional configuration to use , including the format for displaying numbers , currency , date , and time on your device . Remove Programs Uninstall programs that you previously installed on your device . Screen Recalibrate the screen , apply ClearType to display text more clearly , and change the screen text size . Task Manager Stop running programs and set the ( ) button to end programs immediately when you tap the button . For more information , see "" Using Task Manager "" in this chapter . 234 Managing Your Device Icon Description TouchFLO Set the device to vibrate when you tap the tabs , links , or other onscreen items of supported applications . TV Out Set the video standard to use when outputting to an external display . Windows Update Link to Microsoft's web site and update Windows Mobile ® on your device with the latest security patches or fixes , if they are available . Connections tab Icon Description Advanced Network Turn HSPA on / off , set the GPRS authentication method , and set the line type to use when making a circuit switch data ( CSD ) connection . HSPA is a 3 . 5G digital data service that provides high-speed downstream / upstream data rates . Check with your wireless service provider whether HSPA is supported in your area . Bluetooth Turn Bluetooth on , set your device to visible mode , and scan for other Bluetooth devices . Comm Manager Manage your device's connections ( including the phone , GPRS / 3G , Wi-Fi , and Bluetooth ) or turn the phone function on or off . Connection Setup Configure your device's data connections , such as GPRS , and WAP , based on the detected SIM card or selected network operator . See "" Using Connection Setup "" in this chapter for details . Connections Set up one or more types of modem connection for your device , such as phone dial-up and GPRS , so that your device can connect to the Internet or a private local network . Domain Enroll Enroll your device in your company's domain to let System Center Mobile Device Manager manage the device . Ask your network administrator for more details . Managing Your Device 235 Icon Description USB to PC Set the type of USB connection to your PC . Select the ActiveSync option for synchronizing data , or use Disk Drive mode for transferring files . Wi-Fi Turn the Wi-Fi function on or off , scan for available wireless networks , see information about the active wireless network , and customize Wi-Fi settings . 13.3 Changing Basic Settings Display settings To manually adjust the screen brightness By default , your device automatically adjusts the screen brightness according to the ambient lighting . 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the System tab , tap Power > Backlight tab . 3 . Clear the Auto adjust backlight check box . 4 . Adjust the brightness by dragging the slider under On battery power and On external power . To automatically turn off the screen backlight when the device is not in use 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the System tab , tap Power > Advanced tab . 3 . In On battery power and On external power , specify the time before the screen backlight turns off . 236 Managing Your Device To increase or decrease the size of text on the screen 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the System tab , tap Screen > Text Size tab . 3 . Move the slider to increase or decrease the text size . To re-calibrate the touch screen The device touch screen is calibrated before shipment . Re-calibrate the touch screen if it does not accurately respond to screen taps . 1 . While the device is on , press and hold the VOLUME UP and VOLUME DOWN buttons , and then tap the screen to open the align screen . 2 . Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the calibration . Device name Note The device name is used to identify your device when synchronizing with a computer , connecting to a network , or restoring information from a backup . If you synchronize multiple devices with the same computer , each device must have a unique name . To change the device name 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the System tab , tap About > Device ID tab . 3 . Enter the device name . Notes • The device name must begin with a letter , consist of letters from A to Z , numbers from 0 to 9 , and can not contain spaces . Use the underscore character to separate words . • If you enroll your device to your company's domain , the device name will be changed to be the same as the one used to enroll the device . Managing Your Device 237 Ringer settings To change the ring type and ring tone 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap Sound . 2 . Scroll down and then tap Ring Type . Select the ring type you want to use , and then tap Done . 3 . Tap Ringtone , and then select the ring tone you want to use . 4 . Tap Done . Tips • You can use * . wav , * . mid , * . mp3 , * . wma , or other types of sound files that you downloaded from the Internet or copied from your computer . For a complete list of supported audio file formats , see "" Specifications "" in the Appendix . • To use your sound files as ring tones , copy them first to the / My Documents / My Ringtones folder on your device , and then select the sound from the Ring tone list of your device . For more information about copying files , see "" Copying and Managing Files "" in this chapter . To choose how to be notified about events or actions 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap Sound > Advanced . 2 . On the Sounds tab , choose how you want to be notified by selecting the appropriate check boxes . 3 . On the Notifications tab , in Event , tap a ring type and ring tone for that event or action from the lists below . Tip Turning off sound notifications helps conserve battery power . 238 Managing Your Device Phone services You can change the settings of various phone services for your device . Phone services may include Call Forwarding , Call Waiting , Voicemail , and more . Contact your wireless service provider to find out about the availability of phone services for your device . To access and change settings of phone services 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap Communications . 2 . On the Comm Manager screen , tap Phone > Phone services . 3 . Select the service you want to use , and then tap Get Settings . 4 . Choose your desired options , and then tap OK . 13.4 Using Connection Setup After you insert a new SIM card and power on your device , you can use Connection Setup to automatically configure your device's data connections , such as 3G / GPRS and WAP . Note For details on how to automatically configure the data connections , see "" Auto configuring data connection settings and importing SIM contacts "" in Chapter 1 . To manually select the network operator to use for data connections You can manually select your network operator and allow Connection Setup to reconfigure your device's data connections settings based on the selected operator . 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the Connections tab , tap Connection Setup . 3 . Select the network Country and Operator you want to use , then tap OK . Note If you choose a country and / or operator that is different from the installed SIM card network operator , you may not be able to access network services . Managing Your Device 239 4 . When prompted to confirm whether you want to configure the data connection settings , tap Yes . 5 . After Connection Setup completes the configuration , tap Restart . 13.5 Using Comm Manager Comm Manager lets you easily turn on and off the communication features of your device such as the phone , Bluetooth , Wi-Fi , and data connection . To access Comm Manager Tap Start > Settings , and then tap Communications . 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 240 Managing Your Device 1 Switch Airplane Mode on or off . See "" Turning the Phone Function On and Off "" in Chapter 2 . Access the phone settings and change the PIN codes , configure phone services , and more . Connect a Bluetooth headset or other Bluetooth-enabled device . See Chapter 9 for details . Connect to a wireless network . See Chapter 8 for details . Open ActiveSync and adjust the push e-mail settings . See Chapter 7 for details . Open Connection Setup and automatically configure your data connection settings . 7 Switch the phone on or off . See "" Turning the Phone Function On and Off "" in Chapter 2 . 8 Switch Bluetooth on or off . See Chapter 9 for details . 9 Switch Wi-Fi on or off . See Chapter 8 for details . 10 Switch between automatically receiving ( as items arrive ) or manually retrieving Outlook e-mail messages . See Chapter 7 for details . 11 Connect or disconnect active data connections ( 3G / GPRS , or EDGE ) . 12 Adjust the phone , Bluetooth , and Wi-Fi settings . 2 3 4 5 6 13.6 Using Task Manager Task Manager lets you view and stop running programs , configure the and enable the Quick Menu on the Home screen . button , To open Task Manager Tap the Quick Menu button on the top-right corner of the Home screen to open the Quick Menu , and then tap . To configure the Exit ( ) button By default , running programs are shut down when you tap and hold the 1 . On the Task Manager screen , tap the Button tab . Note When you clear Enable the "" X "" button to end running programs , tapping the Exit button only closes a program screen . The program is not ended and continues to run in the background . button . Managing Your Device 241 2 . Choose the action for shutting down programs ( by tapping the by tapping and holding the button ) . 3 . Tap OK . To add a running program to the exclusive list If you add a running program to the Exclusive Programs List , it will not be closed when you tap Stop Selected or Stop All and will not be listed in the Quick Menu on the Home Screen . 1 . On the Task Manager screen , tap the Running tab . 2 . Tap and hold the program name , and then tap Add Exclusive . Tip To remove a program from the exclusive list , tap and hold the program on the Running tab , then tap Remove from Exclusive . button , or 13.7 Protecting Your Device Protecting your SIM card with a PIN You can protect your SIM card by requiring a PIN ( personal identification number ) every time the device is turned on . You will not be able to use the phone or the data connection until you enter the correct PIN . To enable the SIM card PIN 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap Communications . 2 . On the Comm Manager screen , tap Phone > PIN Code . 3 . Enter the PIN , tap OK , and then tap OK on the dialog box . Tips • To change the PIN , tap Change PIN on the Phone Settings screen . • Emergency calls can be placed at any time , without requiring a PIN . 242 Managing Your Device Protecting your device with a password You can help keep your data more secure by requiring a password every time the device is turned on . To set a device password 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the Personal tab , tap Lock . 3 . Select the Prompt if device unused for check box , then specify the idle time before the device requires a password . 4 . In the Password type box , select the type of password you would like to use . Tip If your device is configured to connect to a network , use an alphanumeric password for increased security . 5 . Enter the password in both the Password and Confirm boxes . 6 . Tap OK . The next time the device is turned on , you will be prompted to enter your password . Notes • To ensure that you can always make emergency calls , do not begin your password with the digits of your local emergency number . • If you entered a hint , the hint will be displayed after the wrong password is entered five times . • Each time a wrong password is entered , the device response time gets longer until the device appears to be not responding . • If you forget your password , you can hard reset or clear the device memory . For more information about hard resetting the device and clearing the memory , see "" Resetting Your Device "" . Managing Your Device 243 Encrypting files on your storage card 2 . On the System tab , tap Encryption . You can set your device to encrypt files as they are saved on the storage card . 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 3 . Select Encrypt files when placed on a storage card . Notes • Encrypted files can only be read on the device that encrypted them . • Encrypted files are opened just like other files , provided you are using the device that encrypted them . There is no separate step for you to take to read these files . Important If Encrypt files when placed on a storage card is enabled , backup all files from the storage card before using Clear Storage , hard reset , or updating the operating system . Otherwise you will no longer be able to access the encrypted files on the storage card . Use ActiveSync or Windows Mobile Device Center to transfer files between your storage card and computer . After the procedure , copy your files back to the storage card . 13.8 Resetting Your Device Performing a soft reset Perform a soft ( normal ) reset to clear all active program memory and shut down all active programs . This is useful when your device is running slower than normal , or a program is not performing properly . If a soft reset is performed when programs are running , unsaved work is lost . To perform a soft reset 1 . Pull out the stylus . 2 . Remove the back cover . For instructions , see "" To remove the back cover "" in Chapter 1 . 244 Managing Your Device 3 . Use the stylus tip to press the RESET button located at the upper-left side of the open back panel . Your device restarts and displays the Home screen . 4 . Replace the back cover and insert the stylus back into its compartment . Performing a hard reset If a normal reset does not solve a system problem , you can perform a hard ( full ) reset . After a hard reset , the device is restored to its default settings – the way it was when you first purchased it and turned it on . You will lose any programs you installed , data you entered , and settings you customized on your device , and only Windows Mobile ® software and other pre-installed programs will remain . Warning ! our device will be set back to factory default settings . Make sure that any Y additional installed programs and / or user data have been backed up before you perform a hard reset . Important If Encrypt files when placed on a storage card is enabled , backup all files from the storage card before using Clear Storage , hard reset , or updating the operating system . Otherwise you will no longer be able to access the encrypted files on the storage card . Use ActiveSync or Windows Mobile Device Center to transfer files between your storage card and computer . After the procedure , copy your files back to the storage card . Managing Your Device 245 To perform a hard reset 1 . With the device turned off , press and hold the TALK / SEND , END and POWER buttons until you see this message on the screen . This operation will delete all your personal data , and reset all settings to manufacturer default . Press VolUp to restore manufacturer default , or press other keys to cancel . 2 . Release the TALK / SEND , END and POWER buttons . 3 . Press the VOLUME UP button to perform the hard reset , or press any other button to cancel the reset . Using Clear Storage If you can access the device settings , you can use Clear Storage to reset your device back to factory default settings . 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the System tab , tap Clear Storage . 3 . Enter "" 1234 "" and then tap Yes . 246 Managing Your Device 13.9 Windows Update Update Windows Mobile ® with the latest security patches and fixes from Microsoft , if these are available . To set up Windows Update The first time you run Windows Update , you need to set up how you want Windows Update to check for updates . 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the System tab , tap Windows Update . 3 . On the Update Setup screen , tap Next . 4 . Choose how you want to check for updates , then tap Next . Note If you select Automatic , you are asked if you want to use your current data plan to check for updates . Select or clear the Use my data plan to check for and download updates check box , and tap Next . 5 . Tap Finish . To check for updates 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the System tab , tap Windows Update . 3 . Tap Check Now . To change Windows Update options 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the System tab , tap Windows Update . 3 . Tap Menu > Connections to change how the device connects to the Internet when checking for updates , or tap Menu > Change Schedule to change how Windows Update checks for Windows Mobile ® updates . Managing Your Device 247 13.10 Connecting to an External Display Your device has a TV output which can be connected to an external display , such as a TV monitor , that has an RCA cable socket . This allows you to output the device screen and audio to a big-screen display . Note You need an HTC TV Out cable to be able to connect your device to an external display . The HTC TV Out cable is sold separately . To connect the device to an external display 1 . Turn off the external display . 2 . Connect the ends ( red , white , and yellow RCA plugs ) of the HTC TV Out cable to the external display's RCA sockets . 3 . Connect the mini-USB end of the HTC TV Out cable to the sync connector at the bottom of the device . The TV Out screen opens . 4 . Choose the video standard to use when outputting the video and then tap Done . For example , if your video is in the NTSC standard and you select PAL-M , TV Out will automatically convert your video to PAL-M before it outputs to the external display . Note If you need to change the video standard option in the future , tap Start > Settings > All Settings > System tab > TV Out . 5 . Tap the type of media you want to output . 6 . Turn on the external display and then switch it to the input signal that you connected the HTC TV Out cable to ( for example , Video 1 ) . The screen orientation is always in landscape mode while your device is connected to the external display ."	Instruction
324	PHOTONEX , the UK's annual photonics , lasers and optical instrumentation event , will be held on 5-6 October . The exhibition of 150 different companies and organisations is supplemented by a technical programme and networking activities . This year's event will be brimming with new products , ideas and a breathtaking range of photonics and optoelectronic components , tools , instruments , materials , software , systems , services and applicable optical technologies . There will also be free seminars , arranged by Photonics Cluster , the UK Industrial Vision Association and the Institute of Physics Optical Group . For the first time this year , the exhibition is featuring a special photonics demonstration area , supported by the DTI , to host demonstrations of the work of LINK ISD and OSDA projects , university groups and knowledge transfer networks ( KTN ) . These demonstrations show the progress being made , in the UK , in the development of next generation photonics products . Back to top Event : PHOTONEX 05 When : 5 October , 10am-5pm and 6 October , 10am-4pm Venue : Hall 2 , Stoneleigh Park , near Coventry ( free parking available ) Details : There is free entry to PHOTONEX 05 , but do register before the event to secure your place . For full details of the event , and to register for a free visitor pack , visit	Promotion
1668	"Tibbetts Brook , originally Tippett's Brook or Tibbitt's Brook , is a stream in the southern portion of mainland New York , flowing north to south from the city of Yonkers in Westchester County into the borough of the Bronx within New York City . Originally emptying into Spuyten Duyvil Creek as part of the Harlem River system , the stream is now partially subterranean , ending above ground at the south end of Van Cortlandt Lake within Van Cortlandt Park . There it proceeds into city sewers , draining into either the northern end of the Harlem River or the Wards Island Water Pollution Control Plant . The brook provides significant watershed to both Van Cortlandt Park at its south end and Tibbetts Brook Park at its north end . There have been modern proposals to daylight the southern portion of the brook back onto the surface . Contents Top : The original course of Spuyten Duyvil Creek and its junction with Tibbetts Brook , and the island of Paparinemo ( now Kingsbridge , Bronx ) Bottom : An 1895 map of Van Cortlandt Park , showing the course of Tibbetts Brook through the park lake , and its original crossing point with Broadway . Tibbetts Brook originates at H.F. Redmond Junior Memorial Park just north of Yonkers Avenue in Dunwoodie , Yonkers . It proceeds south through two artificial lakes in Tibbetts Brook Park , on a course parallel and adjacent to the Saw Mill River Parkway and the former New York and Putnam Railroad ( now a park trail ) . South of the park the brook runs in a channel directly adjacent to the northbound side of the parkway , then crosses the Yonkers / Bronx border into Van Cortlandt Park . It runs through the center of the Van Cortlandt Golf Course , then empties into Van Cortlandt Lake , an artificial lake created in 1699 by damming the stream . The brook currently ends at the south edge of the lake , at approximately West 242nd Street . Several storm drains feed excess rainwater into the brook within Yonkers . At the brook's mouth , the water from the brook proceeds into a brick sewer tunnel , which later merges with the major city sewer underneath Broadway that carries rainwater , household wastewater , and industrial sewage . The tunnel primarily drains into the Wards Island Water Pollution Control Plant where city sewage is treated . During rainy conditions the sewer overflows into the north end of the Harlem River , via a drain pipe at about West 192nd Street ( Heath Avenue ) . Due to modern development , the brook runs through underpasses and culverts at various points along its course . As recently as the early 20th Century , Tibbets Brook had two northern tributaries which merged at the north end of modern Tibbets Brook Park . The easternmost began in Redmond Park , while the western stream extended as far as Runyon Heights . The two streams originally merged at Peckham's Lake , later converging at the lakes of Tibbets Brook Park following the completion of the park . The Saw Mill Parkway was built over the western stream in the late 1920s . Until the end of the 19th century , the brook extended past the south end of Van Cortlandt Park . It ran southwest through the site of the current Van Cortlandt Stadium , crossed Broadway at around West 240th Street , then continued southwest through the Kingsbridge neighborhood , running a twisty course along the right-of-way of modern Tibbett Avenue . At approximately West 230th Street , just north of the current site of John F. Kennedy High School , the brook drained into Spuyten Duyvil Creek , which at the time separated the Bronx from Marble Hill , Manhattan . Until the 1700s , Tibbets Brook split into two smaller streams at around West 237th Street , the westernmost and primary stream along modern Tibbett Avenue feeding into the Spuyten Duyvil , and the easternmost along the right-of-ways of the Putnam Railroad and current Major Deegan Expressway feeding into the Harlem River . The two streams formed a triangular island called Paparinemo that constitutes much of today's Kingsbridge neighborhood . The brook had numerous tributaries , including several within modern Van Cortlandt Park . The north end of the brook within Yonkers and the park is entirely fresh water , while south of the park it was a tidal estuary lined with salt marshes . The watershed from the brook created wetlands surrounding the stream , and formed a northern extension of the Harlem River valley . The original Spuyten Duyvil Creek course has since been filled in , replaced by the Harlem River Ship Canal . An 1867 map of Yonkers and Western Bronx , showing the course of Tibbetts Brook ( in red ) prior to modern development . Tibbetts Brook was originally referred to as Mosholu by local Lenape Native Americans , an Algonquin word meaning "" smooth stones "" or "" small stones "" . The Mosholu name was later given to Mosholu Parkway . The label Tibbetts Brook was applied by European settlers , named after George Tippett who held property between the Hudson River and Bronx River in the late 17th Century , with the brook running through the center . Although often considered a corruption of the name Tippett , the label may be a combination of the name of Tippett and that of his father-in-law William Betts , who owned the land along with him . The brook has also been referred to as the Yonkers River or Yonkers Creek in the past , previously written as Jonckers or Uncas . During at least three glacial periods , including the Wisconsin glaciation around 20,000 years ago , ice sheets advanced south across North America carving moraines , valleys , and hills across present-day Bronx and Westchester . As the glacial ice melted , rivers and creeks were formed within valleys , including Tibbetts Brook . Prior to European colonization , the local Lenape population utilized the brook for drinking water and fishing . Trout swam up the Harlem River in order to use the freshwater portion of the brook as a spawning site . The salt marshes along the stream housed fish and migratory birds , along with mussels , oysters , and crabs . In the 1690s , Jacobus Van Cortlandt acquired property near Tibbetts Brook from his relative Frederick Philipse , located in modern Van Cortlandt Park . This area was called "" George's Point "" , where the brook turned west towards Broadway . In 1699 , Van Cortlandt dammed the stream in order to power a gristmill and sawmill , creating Van Cortlandt Lake as a mill pond in the process . By the 19th Century , the eastern stream was filled in , connecting Kingsbridge to the rest of the Bronx . From 1872 to 1880 , the New York and Putnam Railroad was built along the Tibbetts Brook valley . The construction of the railroad altered the natural drainage pattern of the brook , leading new marshes to develop around it . In 1888 , the New York City Parks Department acquired the land to create Van Cortlandt Park . The Parks Department began draining the brook wetlands for recreational areas , creating the park's parade ground in 1888 and the Van Cortlandt Golf Course in 1895 . The lake flows south into a drain pipe to the Broadway sewer Between the late 1890s and the early 1910s , around the time the original course of Spuyten Duyvil Creek was filled in and replaced by the Harlem River Ship Canal , the double-arched Broadway sewer was constructed , as was the tunnel at the south end of Van Cortlandt Lake to funnel water from the brook into the sewer . The marshlands created by the brook and lake had drawn the ire of local residents and property owners , who believed them to be "" unsightly and unsanitary "" . Of particular concern was the threat of the wetlands serving as breeding grounds for malaria - borne mosquitoes . The Broadway Outlet Sewer was completed in 1907 . In conjunction with the sewer project , from 1903 to 1911 the Parks Department completed a cleaning and improvement project for the Van Cortlandt Lake . This involved removing the original earthen dam and emptying the lake in order to dredge the lake bed to a lower depth . A new dam was installed to reform the lake . The drain pipe between the lake and Broadway sewer was constructed from 1911 to 1912 . It was originally envisioned as cast-iron , but built using brick . Around this time , Tibbett Avenue was laid out and opened , while much of the marshland within the park and along the former river course was filled in . On June 25 , 1927 , Westchester County opened Tibbetts Brook Park near the northern end of the brook , on land previously confiscated from the Tippett estate . Much of the site had been a Yonkers city garbage dump located on the banks of the western brook tributary . The garbage and residential sewage seeped into the stream , which fed polluted water into Peckham's Lake . The lake had been used by residents as a swimming hole in spite of recommendations against it by health officials . The area immediately south of the lake had been a swamp which was a haven for mosquitoes . As part of the creation of the park , the original lake was filled in , while the swamp was dredged to form the current Tibbetts Lake . The brook , meanwhile , was diverted into a paved channel . The eastern tributary had been protected by fences and infrastructure from the nearby Old Croton Aqueduct . At the time the park was constructed , the southern portion of the Saw Mill River Parkway was built on top of the dump along the western tributary course . Between the 1930s and 1960s under the supervision of Robert Moses , several highways including the Henry Hudson , Saw Mill and Mosholu Parkways were constructed within Van Cortlandt Park , requiring Tibbetts Brook to be diverted into culverts under the roadways . The creation of the sewer at the south end of Van Cortlandt Lake and the construction of the highways induced siltation of the stream , leading to further creation of marshes . In addition , pollution from upstream and the highways , and spillover of chemicals used in the golf course led to the death of fish inhabiting the lake . In 1978 , the fish population of the lake was restored . In 1979 , four storm sewers along Midland Avenue in Yonkers ( which forms the eastern boundary of Tibbetts Brook Park ) were found to be illegally connected to the brook , pumping raw sewage into it which proceeded to enter Van Cortlandt Lake downstream . That year , another storm drain located at approximately Lawton Street and McLean Avenue near the Saw Mill Parkway , 1,300 feet ( 400 m ) north of the Yonkers / Bronx border , was found to be leaking household sewage into the brook . In 1984 , sewage from Yonkers was again found to be contaminating Van Cortlandt Lake , due to the crossing of raw sewage pipes and storm sewers which feed into Tibbetts Brook . This included water from the Lawton Street drain pipe . The same sewage pipe was found to be the cause of pollution of the lake in 2016 . In the 21st century , it has been proposed to daylight the southern portion of Tibbetts Brook back onto the surface , and to restore and defragment the portions of the stream within Van Cortlandt Park . Proposals to daylight the stream have existed since the 1990s . Around 4,000,000 to 5,000,000 US gallons ( 15 , 000 , 000 to 19,000,000 l ; 3,300,000 to 4,200,000 imp gal ) of fresh water from the brook enter the sewer system on a daily basis , a total of 2,000,000,000 US gallons ( 7 . 6 × 10 9 l ; 1.7 × 10 9 imp gal ) annually . The additional water from the brook also contributes to the further overflowing of raw sewage into the Harlem River during rainy conditions . Meanwhile , the lack of natural drainage points within Van Cortlandt Park leads to the flooding of recreational areas within the park . The New York City Parks Department plans to daylight the brook as part of their "" Van Cortlandt Park Master Plan : 2030 "" . The plan also proposes further dredging the lake and stream within the park , and rerouting the stream away from the highways and pedestrian paths to minimize the use of culverts , as well as restoring the natural wetlands created by the brook . The primary route proposed for bringing the brook above ground is the former Putnam Railroad right-of-way , which is currently owned by CSX Transportation but is largely abandoned between the park and the Harlem River . This portion of the Putnam Railroad is directly adjacent to the southbound lanes of the Major Deegan Expressway . The routing would provide a more natural drainage path for the brook into the Harlem River , with none of the water entering the sewer system on a normal basis . ^ Cook , Lyman ( September 5 , 1820 ) . "" By virtue of sandry writs of fieri facias ... "" ( PDF ) . Westchester Herald . Retrieved January 7 , 2017 . southerly by said road leading to Kings bridge , thence along spitendevil creek to the mouth of Yonkers creek , thence up said creek till it comes to the land of August Van Cortlandt ..."	Information/Explanation
1387	The MOST satellite design originates from trying to fit as large a telescope as possible , all the electronics to interface with the telescope , the satellite bus equipment that allows the storage and transmission of the science data to the ground , the ACS hardware that is required to maintain better than 25 arcsecond pointing accuracy for the telescope , and a power system to provide enough power to the satellite , all into a package that can meet the requirements for launch as a secondary payload on a Delta II launch vehicle ( with Radarsat-2 as the primary payload ) . It probably bears little resemblance to the satellite design that would have resulted had a launch on the Rockot been planned from Day 1 . However , that is the nature of microsatellite design . The telescope is a 15cm diameter aperture Maksutov telescope . A periscope mirror allows the long axis of the telescope to lie perpendicular to the aperture of the telscope and therefore fit into the Delta II secondary payload physical constraints . Attached to the telescope , separate from the satellite bus structure , is a two stage passive cryocooler that is capable of maintaining the focal plane of the telescope at a temperature of -40 ° C. Covering the aperture of the telescope is a door that is designed to actively close to protect the instrument focal plane from direct sunlight . The satellite structure is based on a tray stack design . The structure consists of aluminum trays that house the satellite's electronics , battery , radios , and attitude actuators . These trays are stacked forming the structural backbone of the satellite . To this backbone , the telescope is mounted with its barrel parallel to the axis of the stack . Six aluminum honeycomb panels , acting as substrates for solar cells and carriers for attitude sensors , enclose the tray stack / telescope assembly . An actuated telescope door mounted on the star facing side of the satellite protects the telescope focal plane from direct stares at the Sun should the satellite tumble or lose attitude lock .	Information/Explanation
1359	Hairstyles 2012 The hair style one should go for depends on various factors such as the shape of one's face , the height one has acquired from his / her ancestors , the density of the hair one has on his / her head , the colour of the hair , the seasons-yes there are seasonal Hairstyles as well etc. There will be some hairstyles that I would like to discuss here in detail , which hair style best suits you & your personality : - 1 . Bangs or Fringes – This is one of the Hairstyles of the the hairstyles 2012 & is best for females who have silky soft hair , it can be described as the hair style which is cut above the eyebrows . Suits females who not only have thin & silky hair but also suits females who have high cheek bones as the style falls in line with the overall structure of their face . Also goes very well if you are one of those working in corporate world . 2 . Bob Cut – This hair cut is for the females who have an oblong & uniform face structure as the bob cut gels very well with it . It is one of those classic hair style in which the ends of the hair are cut till the chin & encompasses the sides of the facial area . This is one of the style of the list of hairstyles 2012 & is very common among those females which are home makers & who tend to feel hassled by long hair as the daily chores do n't quite allow them to expend their energies on hair management part of their existence . 3 . Bun – A very simplistic hair style in which the hair are pulled into a pigtail / pony tail & then the circumference of the tail is rounded off to keep it on the centre of the head . Hairstyles 2012 provides this hair do for the females which have a round face & even this one can be sported while one is working in a corporate culture . 4 . Long Hair-ed Look – This one is for you if you have that small & innocuous looking face so as to make sure that the overall face plus hair style structure looks fuller & compliments the personality you possess & this is one of the free looking Hairstyles of the list of hairstyles 2012 . 5 . Updo – This is a little complicated & can be explored & sported while one has to be a part of some sort of a formal gathering , this one is for females with fuller & larger face shape & generally compliments their persona more . The last on the list of hairstyles 2012 , but by no means the least important on the list of the ones which required detailed analysis & hence the hair style which was given an elaborate share of attending . But , one point I must stress on here is that if you wish to sport this hair style it is important to straighten your hair once so that it becomes easy for the hair to be arranged . These are few of the hairstyles 2012 can have which I discussed in detail , please go with the look which suits your face shape , overall stature & hair colour best . Also , if you wish to have a detailed look at the pictures of the respective hairstyles mentioned please click on hairstyles 2012 .	Instruction
982	"As Japan , the United States and South Korea meet in Tokyo to discuss setting up a second round of international talks on halting North Korea's nuclear weapons development , Pyongyang warns that it is already taking steps to increase it nuclear capabilities . North Korea is once again saying that it has no interest in further rounds of six-party talks on its nuclear program , echoing comments made following the first such round , which was held in Beijing in August and ended without concrete progress . The north also says it is boosting its nuclear capabilities as a deterrent against a possible attack by the United States . For weeks , Pyongyang , through its Korean Central News Agency , has threatened to beef up nuclear weapons development to ward off a possible U.S. strike . A spokesman of the North Korean Foreign Ministry said that if Washington pushed the north to give up its nuclear weapons program before guaranteeing the isolated Stalinist state's security , it could lead to war . The South Korean and American governments see such comments as a typical North Korean negotiating tactic . Pyongyang also called again for a non-aggression treaty from the United States before it responds to international concerns about its nuclear program , a request Washington has repeatedly rejected . The United States insists the north must scrap its weapons programs first , but has also said it has no plans to attack it . The north's latest commentary comes as the Bush administration's top negotiator on North Korea , Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly , met for a second day with officials from Japan and South Korea in Tokyo to discuss preparations for a new round of six-country talks involving China , Russia , the two Koreas , Japan and the United States . James Kelly "" > James Kelly The talks were held behind closed doors at a Tokyo hotel and officials did not comment on the meeting's content . Noriyuki Suzuki , a Japan-based North Korea expert , says he has high hopes for the six-party process and noted that all participants agreed to work on solving the conflict peacefully . He added that he is confident that the negotiation process will eventually halt North Korea's nuclear activities . Also Tuesday , the United States and South Korea commemorated the 50th anniversary of their Mutual Defense Treaty , under which Washington stations 37,000 U.S. troops in South Korea to help protect it in case the North launches an attack . The American ambassador to South Korea , Thomas Hubbard , said in a speech in Seoul on Tuesday that the United States and South Korea must continue to be vigilant in the face of the North Korean security threat . The nuclear crisis erupted nearly one year ago when the United States accused North Korea of the reneging on a 1994 agreement by running a secret nuclear weapons program ."	News
104	Chapter 10 Navigating on the Road 10.1 GoogleTM Maps ( Available by Country ) GoogleTM Maps lets you track your current location , view real-time traffic situations , and receive detailed directions to your destination . It also allows you to search and locate places of interest or even a contact address . Note You need an active data or Wi-Fi connection to use Google Maps . To open Google Maps , tap Start > Google Maps . Zoom in Zoom out View your current location . Get directions , see traffic information , and more . Search for places 190 Navigating on the Road Notes • Traffic information is available only in some selected cities . • Tap Menu > Help > Tips to learn more about the program and its many features . Searching a place of interest Google Maps lets you search and locate a place of interest , shows the contact information for that place , and gives directions on how to get there from your current location . 1 . On the Google Maps screen , tap Search . 2 . Enter the name , address , or postal code of the place on the search field and then tap OK . 3 . In the search results list , tap the place to view its address , phone number , and other details . Navigating on the Road 191 4 . On the Address tab , tap : • The [ phone number ] to call the place of interest . • The web address ( if available ) to go to the web site of the place of interest . • Get directions to get directions to the place of interest from your current location . • Street view ( available by country ) to display a street view of the place of interest , when available . • Send as text message to send the place's contact information to your contact via SMS . • Save as favorite to add the place of interest to your list of favorite places . To access your favorite places , on the Google Maps screen , tap Menu > Favorites . • Save as contact to save the contact information of the place of interest to your contacts list . 5 . Tap See map to view the place of interest on the map . For more information about Google Maps , go to http://www.google.com/gmm/index.html. 10.2 Guidelines and Preparation for Using GPS If you installed a GPS navigation software on your device , follow these guidelines before and when using your device for GPS navigation . • When using GPS navigation software in the car , always plot your GPS route before starting to drive . Do not try to configure the GPS navigation software while driving . • The plotted GPS route is only for driving reference . It should not interfere with actual driving behavior . 192 Navigating on the Road • Do not leave your device in a vehicle or expose the device to direct sunlight to avoid overheating the battery , which could pose damage to the device or risk to the vehicle . • When using the device inside a vehicle , use the car holder to mount the device securely in place . Avoid placing the device in the areas shown in the following diagram : 1 Do not place where it will block the driver's vision . 2 Do not place where air bags could deploy . 3 Do not place anywhere in the vehicle without securing the device in the holder . • Use the GPS system cautiously . Users shall be liable for any damages resulting from negligent operation of the system . • The GPS signal can not pass through solid non-transparent objects . Signal reception may be affected by obstructions such as high-rise buildings , tunnels , bridges , forests , weather ( rainy or cloudy days ) , etc. If the vehicle's visor contains metal , it will be difficult for the GPS signal to pass through . • Other nearby wireless communication products ( such as mobile phones or radar-detecting devices ) may interfere with the satellite signal , resulting in unstable signal reception . Navigating on the Road 193 • The Global Positioning System ( GPS ) is built and operated by the US Defense Department . The Department is responsible for the accuracy and maintenance of the system . Any changes that the Department makes may affect the accuracy and function of the GPS system . 10.3 Downloading Location Data via QuickGPS Before using the device for GPS navigation , open QuickGPS to download ephemeris data ( current satellite position and timing information ) . QuickGPS significantly speeds up the time for determining your GPS position . QuickGPS downloads ephemeris data from web servers , instead of from satellites , using your device's Internet connection via Wi-Fi , ActiveSync or GPRS / 3G . To open QuickGPS Tap Start > All Programs > QuickGPS . To download GPS data Tap Download on the QuickGPS screen . On the screen , initially , you will see the Valid time of the downloaded data . As time passes , the remaining days and hours of validity will be shown . To speed up GPS positioning , download the latest ephemeris data when the validity of the data expires . 194 Navigating on the Road Changing the download options To configure download options , tap Menu > Options and choose from available options : • Remind me when data expires . Display a message when ephemeris data expires . • Auto download when data expires . Automatically download ephemeris data when it expires . • Auto download when connected to PC via ActiveSync . Automatically download ephemeris data when it is connected to your computer via ActiveSync . Your computer must be connected to the Internet to download ephemeris data . • Exit QuickGPS after downloading . Close QuickGPS after satellite data is downloaded .	Instruction
784	The cells that make up the nervous system die at two distinct times during the lifetime of an organism . These periods of neuron loss occur during embryonic development and also during ageing . Our research focuses on the factors that determine how , when and why neurons die at these times . The earliest stage of nervous system development is termed neurulation and at this time , neurons are already dying . Using Xenopus laevis as a model we are investigating what role this loss of cells plays in determining the future anatomy and physiology of the central nervous system . We are also considerating the effects that environmental agents have on cell death during neurulation and how this might relate to the development of neural tube defects such as spina bifida . Later on in embryonic development there is a wave of cell death as neurons innervate their target fields . We are investigating the intracellular and extracellular factors that control this in several populations of murine CNS neurons . Finally we are looking at the causes of cell death in ageing and neurodegenrative diseases with emphasis placed on Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease . Again we are interested in the intracellular and extracellular factors that control this loss of cells . In addition we are investigating factors that influence the physiology of these neurons . about linking to this page make changes to your own information	Information/Explanation
472	DORDOGNE . Architect designed barn conversion extremely well done using all the character of the property . Set in small hamlet about 3km from the pretty village of Sorges & 15mins from Perigueux . Spacious house with 4 bedrooms , parking in front , lovely views , enclosed terrace with pool to the rear and barn for storage . No. of Bedrooms : 4 No. of Reception Rooms : 2 No. of Acres : 0 Additional Photos front facade kitchen dining area sitting room mezzanine stairs to mezzanine bedroom bathroom add to folio contact agent arrange viewing request full details view location Superb barn conversion in a lovely position with views to the open countryside and in a small hamlet about 3km from the pretty village of Sorges with some shops , bars & restaurant / hotel . 15mins drive from Perigueux , Bergerac is about 1hr and Limoges is just over an hour , both have airports with flights to all over the UK . It is a very spacious house with lots of light , all in excellent condition with oil fired central heating and double glazing throughout . Lots of exposed beams and stonework , tiled floor throughout the whole of the ground floor . There is a gravelled area in the front of the house with room to park and bread oven attached . The terrace is at the back of the house and gets the sun most of the day , the pool is set in the terrace and it all provides a super area for pleasure and relaxation with french windows accessing most of the rooms on the ground floor . The layout is as follows ( all measurements are as follows ) : GROUND FLOOR : Glazed door into : KITCHEN 48m2 4 french windows - some opening onto terrace , fitted kitchen units , exposed stone wall , 3 fitted cupboards . LARGE OPEN PLANNED SITTING ROOM 36m2 3 french windows , stairs up to huge mezzanine . BEDROOM 1 20m2 1 window , door to small hall , WALK-IN SHOWER all tiled , ideal for handicapped , wash-hand basin , toilet . UTILITY ROOM housing boiler , plumbing for washing machine , cupboard . BEDROOM 2 24m2 1 french window , fitted wardrobes , EN-SUITE BATHROOM 8m2 with bath , wash-hand basin , toilet , all tiled . FIRST FLOOR tiled floor throughout - MEZZANINE with hall 68m2 huge window with superb views , exposed roof timbers , door off hall to : BEDROOM 3 17 . 5m2 1 window , fitted wardrobe . BEDROOM 4 13 . 5m2 1 window , exposed beams , fitted wardrobe . BATHROOM 15m2 large velux window , bath , wash-hand basin , fitted cupboards . TERRACE at the rear with steps up to the pool and side terrace . SEPARATE BARN 24m2 which is semi-detached and houses the oil tank . To view the full particulars please	Promotion
1366	"News Dozens of whales beached in Florida's Everglades BEACHED WHALES : Officials in boats monitor the scene where dozens of pilot whales are stranded in shallow water in a remote area of Florida's Everglades National Park , Wednesday , Dec. 4 . Photo : Associated Press / Lynne Sladky By Jane Sutton MIAMI ( Reuters ) – Ten whales have died and rescuers were trying to save dozens more that beached in Everglades National Park in southwest Florida , park and wildlife officials said on Wednesday . Forty-one whales were swimming freely in shallow waters near shore as rescuers tried with little success to coax them out into deeper water . Wildlife officers euthanized four whales because they could not be saved , the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , or NOAA , said . NOAA said via Twitter that survival rates were typically low in such instances . They were believed to be short-finned pilot whales , typically found in deep water in tropical and temperate areas . Biologists will perform necropsies on the dead whales to try to determine why they were stranded , NOAA said . "" Pilot whales are common stranders . They tend to do this , "" Friar said . When rescued , she said , "" they tend to rebeach themselves . "" "" This area of the park is probably the most challenging for something like this . When the tide goes out , there 's hundreds of yards of very shallow shoals , "" Friar said ."	News
680	Viglen offer a wide range of peripheral devices that you can use to enhance your IT equipment . Not just a PC and Server manufacturer , we like to offer our customers a total solution , with a wide range of exciting and innovative delivery tools . Online is just a small selection of what we have available . If in doubt always check with your Viglen account manager if there is a product you require but can not find . At Viglen we want to make IT easy for you .	Promotion
131	In a nutshell Most gadgets are created by third parties . Contact info is usually located on the gadget's homepage . The simplest step may be to remove the gadget from your homepage . Learn how . Non-Google gadgets Most of the gadgets for your iGoogle page are created and maintained by third-party developers . If you have questions or concerns about the functionality or content of a particular gadget , your best bet is to try to contact the gadget creator directly . Click the down arrow in the top corner of the gadget . Click About this gadget . Do n't have the gadget on your page anymore ? Search for it in the gadget directory and click its name ( do n't click ' Add it now ' ) . The author of the gadget is listed to the right of the gadget . Click the author name to see more details . On the following page , click the Contact link beneath the author's name . Google gadgets For problems with gadgets related to a specific Google product , such as the Gmail gadget or Google Calendar gadget , the best first step is to try the Google service on its main site ( for instance , if your Gmail gadget is n't working right , try visiting mail . google . com to make sure Gmail is still working ) . If it 's just the gadget , let us know by posting in the Web Search Help Forum . Copyright concerns If you are a copyright holder and want to request removal of material that you believe infringes your copyright , see our DMCA notification instructions . Policy concerns If you want to report a gadget that 's violating our Program Policy , contact us . Note that we 'll only take action on your report if the gadget violates our policies , so review the the Program Policy first . Report gadgets that break iGoogle or violate other program policies	Instruction
787	Example : Animated character wiping a bar . New sequences can be synthesised which are potentially infinitely long . We present a novel approach to motion synthesis . We show that by splitting sequences into segments we can create new sequences with a similar look and feel to the original . Copying segments of the original data generates a sequence which maintains detailed characteristics . By modelling each segment using an autoregressive process we can introduce new segments and therefore unseen motions . These statistical models allow a potentially infinite number of new segments to be generated . We show that this system can model complicated nonstationary sequences which a single ARP is unable to do .	Information/Explanation
1579	"Keyword : Mark As athletes make the transition from professional sports into the business sector , some find it helpful to rely on name recognition established in years past . It is the hope of those who represent these athletes-turned businessmen and women that the sports-related reputation carries sufficient weight in the corporate world to garner a significant amount of contract negotiating power . But even if our clients' reputations are strong now , who 's to say they will continue to be popular enough , good enough or even pure enough to maintain the interest of the consumers who are purchasing goods and services tied to the athletes' names ? This is where the concept of "" brand protection "" typically enters the discussion . Take a survey of a PR firm , an intellectual property attorney , sports agents and talent managers and you are bound to hear various definitions for the term "" brand protection , "" and even more explanations on the best methods of achieving it . In recent years it seems that business professionals have increasingly encouraged clients to achieve a certain level of brand protection by obtaining a formal trademark for their names , logos and even catchphrases . If , by doing so , the hope is to stave off would-be infringers and / or increase the chances of legally stripping infringers of profits generated from the unauthorized use of a protected mark , obtaining a trademark may or may not be the best vehicle to achieve these goals . A person can trademark a word , phrase , symbol or design that identifies and distinguishes the source of a good from goods associated with someone else . Although trademark holders have the exclusive right to use their registered marks , this federally recognized right may not provide the extensive level of legal protection we typically associate with "" trademarks . "" Intuitively , we believe people who sell goods – license plate holders , key chains , t-shirts , cups , etc. – bearing a swoosh symbol , distinctive bunny ears , or a black prancing stallion on a yellow shield , should be sued and forced to turn over their profits if it is the case that the sellers are not actually licensed by these multinational trademark holders . It also seems reasonable to think that the unauthorized sale of cloth patches bearing the initials of a national sports league , or figurines / dolls wearing a jersey bearing a popular player's number should also be deemed unlawful behavior . ( Note that this article will not discuss alternative legal bases a person may rely on to challenge this seemingly illegal behavior , independent of trademark laws . ) Surprisingly ( and for mark holders , unfortunately ) , in many parts of the United States , our intuition with regard to the protection afforded by trademark laws is wrong . In a federal case filed in Arizona , a district judge concluded that the unauthorized sale of license plate holders and key chains branded with a popular symbol for a German auto manufacturer did not constitute infringement . The trial judge explained that consumers are less concerned about who actually manufactures these license plate holders and key chains and more concerned with the functional use of the products that happen to include an aesthetically pleasing insignia . The function of the license plate holders and key chains outweighs the use of the German brand name . As a result , there is no trademark protection because trademark laws do not provide exclusive protections for functional goods . This decision was ultimately overturned on appeal ; however , weighing "" function "" against "" aesthetic "" charm continues to be a major consideration when a trademark holder sues an infringer . Reaching a different conclusion but relying on the same type of reasoning , a trial judge in Texas explained that since the function of an embroidered patch that is typically sewn on to one's own clothes is simply to display an association with a team or fan support as opposed to functioning in another manner ( like a t-shirt , for example ) , the National Hockey League could stop a manufacturer from making and selling these patches that was occurring without NHL permission . These examples show us that the rationale used by courts to enforce the scope of trademarks is neither settled nor necessarily intuitive to the general public because they are considering notions of "" aesthetic functionality . "" As a result , trademark holders should understand why they seek trademark protection , understand the function and aesthetic characteristics associated with the brand name , good and / or service , and cautiously set out to enforce rights as it may turn out to be an expensive and fruitless endeavor even when you know you 're right . Trademark Law Generally Trademark law is a species of "" unfair competition "" laws to the extent that trademark laws permit the holder of a mark to sue someone who is using a mark without permission . Trademark holders typically file lawsuits in an effort to limit consumer confusion . Theoretically , a trademark should garner confidence in consumers who tend to seek out certain products knowing they are officially endorsed by a specific mark holder . In this regard , trademark law can be relied on to protect reputation . When Mars Blackmon , a fictional character created by director Spike Lee , wondered aloud , "" Is it the shoes ? It 's got to be the shoes ... , "" sales of Nike's Air Jordan line probably increased exponentially because basketball fans believed , too , that maybe they could be better if they had the shoes . As a result , consumers specifically sought out Jordan's particular brand of shoes , confident in the manufacturer's product . In addition , trademarks prevent the misappropriation of goodwill by stopping others from stealing or capitalizing on the good reputation of the mark holder by passing off unauthorized goods or services as being endorsed by the athlete . By using a particular symbol on this line of shoes , the manufacturer and the athlete who lends his or her likeness confirm for consumers this product is of a particular quality that is unique from other brands . Trademarks encourage meaningful consumer participation in the market by asking the consumer to choose whether to buy a product associated with his or her favorite athlete or another , perhaps less popular brand . Lastly , trademarks encourage manufacturers to produce well-made products so that consumers are enticed to purchase more goods and services offered by the mark holder . So , with these goals , why and how are trademarks still limited in their legal effect and enforceability ? Limitation of protection based on aesthetic functionality In California , Arizona , Washington , New York , Connecticut and others , the scope of trademark protection is limited by a concept called "" aesthetic functionality . "" In the legal context , aesthetic functionality describes an attempt to classify some visually attractive ( or aesthetically pleasing ) design as "" functional "" and therefore free for all to copy and imitate . In considering the scope of protection trademarks afford , consider the following : Believing you are showing support for your favorite team , you go to your local sporting goods store to pick up a few things for the family . While there , you pick up a few hats , a couple shirts and some blankets to sit on . On each is plastered the name and logo for your team in various fonts and colors . Before heading to the cash register , do you demand from the sales associate a certificate of authenticity that each item bearing your team's logo was manufactured by an authorized licensee ? Probably not . After all , they are all being sold in a store and not on the street corner , right ? Although you hope that your choice has led to the purchase of products from someone who has permission to use the team's name and logo , it just might be that you bought an infringer's products – an infringer who lawfully sells product without permission from the registered mark holder . In February 2011 , the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit confirmed that the example above is the law of the land for this particular segment of the country [ 1 ] . In that case , the Court declined to recognize the existence of trademark infringement where a company sold Betty Boop dolls , t-shirts and handbags without the permission of the [ alleged ] trademark holder . The Court explained that because the products were "" functional "" and because there was no evidence that consumers were actually confused about the identity of the manufacturer , the commercial use of the Betty Boop character on these products could not be protected in the context of trademark law . This decision makes clear that courts recognize a strong public policy of promoting free competition . Courts are reluctant to award exclusive rights in a "" useful "" or functional product . What steps can trademark owners take to protect their marks from unauthorized use ? Predictable legal results are more likely to follow where a trademark is obtained by an athlete who wants to make sure cybersquatters ( for example ) can not capitalize from website domain names that lure unsuspecting people to a site by using the athlete's name or catchphrase for an unauthorized commercial gain . But , where the use of the trademark is grounded in a more complex set of facts , expectations as to enforceability should be shifted . Before running to trademark your name , logo or popular catchphrase , it is imperative that you know why you are doing it . In addition , try to get a clear understanding of the legal protections potentially afforded to you through ownership of the trademark . This means you need to find out why your business team ( PR , lawyer , management , etc. ) believes a trademark is necessary . Perhaps most important , use the trademark as a tool to develop your marketing or business plan , and consider the functional component attributable to your good ( s ) or service ( s ) that could potentially be used against you in an action for trademark infringement . Depending on your goals , a trademark should also be used to limit the scope of the number and type of consumer goods and services to which your mark is affiliated . This will help to create evidence of actual consumer confusion , should you find your trademark infringed . This article is published as an information service and does not constitute the rendering of tax , financial , legal advice or other professional service . Kanika Corley is an attorney with Sedgwick LLP , where she specializes in all matters related to media , entertainment and sports law , including intellectual property and nonprofit compliance ."	Promotion
951	This page contains links to various MS Word documents which should help you with the writing up of your 1b coursework . Once you open a document , save it straight away in your user area . Then close the document and re-open it in MS Word . Ticksheet . doc - This document is a tick sheet that you can use to check your progress . Each tick should be dated and signed by your teacher to show it has been completed correctly . Marks index - This document will be used at the end of your coursework when you have numbered every page . It will form an index to where all the evidence can be found . You could also use it a quick tick list as you work through your coursework . WS1 - Outline . doc - This document will help you outline the task , the type of sources you will use , the outputs you want and the form of the outputs . WS2 - Sources . doc - This document will help you describe your data sources in detail and describe how you captured the data for entry into your database . WS3 - Capture . doc - This document will help you describe how you captured the data for entry into your database . WS4 - Designing . doc - This document will help you describe the design choices you made for your database . WS5 - Creating . doc - This document will help you describe how you actually created your database and explain the choices you made in its design . WS6a - Checks . doc - This document will help you describe the visual checks you made of your database . WS6b - Validation . doc - This document will help you explain the importance of validation checks and describe the ones you built into the design of your database . WS7a - Searches_simple . doc - This document will help you explain the various simple queries that you will create . WS7b - Searches_complex . doc - This document will help you explain the various complex queries that you will create . WS7c - Searches_multiple . doc - This document will help you explain the various complex queries you will create using multiple criteria . WS7d - Searches_graph . doc - This document will help you explain a query that you will use to create a graphical output . WS8 - Evaluation . doc - This document will help you carry out an evaluation of the task , particularly , how easy you found it to produce the different forms of your outputs . WS9 - Software . doc - This document helps you compare your choice of software with another data-handling program . Most of these documents have coloured guidance text that should be removed and replaced with your own text . When completed , they should all be printed out and handed in along with : A printout of all the data in your database , suitably sorted Your completed data capture sheets , complete with record numbers Evidence of your ICT and non-ICT data sources , complete with record numbers Evidence of your query designs and query printouts , labelled with the question they answer .	Instruction
701	All About Wilts ! Wilts is a family owned business that was established in the 1920's and is now one of the largest independent electrical wholesalers in the country . Originally a battery supplier for Exide , two employees of the Company were given the opportunity to buy the division at the end of World War Two . One of these was the father of the current Chairman , David Kingsbury and Wilts as we know it today was born . Our Mission Statement At Wilts we are very proud of our culture which stems from being independently family owned and from everyone playing their part in making our mission statement come alive ! Our mission is to be considered the B-E-S-T electrical wholesaler for service by our customers , through our committed , enthusiastic and well trained staff . We recognise that the staff at Wilts are our most important asset and critical to achieving our mission to be the BEST . Our values Our values are reflected clearly in the way in which we conduct ourselves at work , and in how we relate to colleagues , customers , suppliers and other members of the community who become involved with the company . They are also reflected in the way in which we organise our time , manage other staff and also guide decision-making at all levels . Teamwork We all take responsibility for every customer and work together as one , sharing our resources to give each and every customer the best service . Integrity We always act with integrity at all times towards our colleagues , customers , suppliers and anyone else who comes into contact with the company . Innovation We always look for new ways to improve and advance in every area of the business . Flexibility We will always go out of our way to serve our customers and to fulfil their requirements . Reliability We will always be there for our colleagues , customers , suppliers and anyone else who comes into contact with the company and do everything in our power to ensure the company is sustainable over the long term .	Promotion
395	"NPC Journal 3 ( 3 ) , 1982 , pp 11-17 Mexico 1981 - Spring Project Departing from Heathrow in typical British rain and low cloud I expected sunny Texas to be a pleasant improvement , but arriving in Houston six hours late , I got a bus to Austin and found the weather was just the same - a poor start soon to be improved upon as frantic last minute food and gear buying took place in increasingly hot conditions . After five days of this , based at AMCS ' headquarters ' as a guest of Peter Sprouse and Terri Treacy we hit the road to Mexico , the sheer length of the drive across Texas starting to bring home the size of this continent . We reached Ciudad Victoria , Mexico , the next day and from there we headed towards the mountains and the Río Purificación at Barretal . After a last swim in the river we set off up the long dirt track into the hills , starting out flat and straight past large cacti in the fields , but becoming abruptly steeper as the Sierra Madre Oriental reared up ahead . The track soon became a four wheel drive test piece like the Alum Pot track laid over Hardknott . This lasts for a good fifteen miles passing over the Paso del Muerte , an entertaining bit of road eight feet wide cut into a cliff face rising several hundred feet on the right , and adding an air of seriousness to the almost sheer half mile drop into thick forest on the left . Rounding a tight bend , a vista opened up on the right , of the Cañon Infiernillo , in the steep headwall of which is the massive entrance of Cueva Infiernillo , the bottom entrance to La Sistema Purificación . As darkness descended , we arrived at Conrado Castillo , a tiny forestry hamlet , which was to be our base for the next seven weeks . The first day was spent organising gear , and in finding our way round the immediate area . Our first trip into the Sistema was via the Entrada de los Franceses , an entrance direct into the highest part of the system , Valhalla , a complex fossil phreatic maze in somewhat crumbly rock . The first part of the cave is generally dry and we caved in jeans and shirt sleeves down a series of low passages and then many climbs always leading down over solution etched rock in wierd forms . One or two parts of this area are quite narrow , and as we were carrying quite a bit of gear , our progress was not too fast in the warm cave ( generally about 15 ° in the upper part of the system ) . A change of character in the cave to darker , firmer limestone somewhat reminiscent of OFD was closely followed by the sound of running water and we soon emerged at roof level above a five metre climb into Valkyrie River , a recently discovered stream passage whose source and destination are unknown . We unpacked gear and got changed into wetsuits in the roof passage and then climbed down into the stream . Upstream through beautiful blue dolly tubs , a series of shallow lakes led to a wide sump pool held back by extensive gravel banks . Here Randy Rumer donned a mask and tried free diving with an electric lamp . The roof levelled out at about - 2m in very clear water but Randy needed a large rock in his wetsuit to get enough weight to go further . A small bell about 2m in had no air and as the sump could be seen to go many metres in crystal visibility he retreated . Don Coons dived a couple of times finding nothing new , but the visibility started to deteriorate , so we decided to head downstream to survey in going leads . Downstream from our entry point , deep canals in blue water with calcite encrustations made pleasant going to a sump with a bypass . From here we split into two parties to survey cave which soon degenerated into muddy grovels which closed down or sumped . We reached the surface after 13 hrs underground . After a couple of days rest , we planned a week long trip to Camp 1 in Infiernillo to explore leads in the lower part of the system . Since the cave entrance is halfway up a large cliff at the head of a cañon about an hour and a half from the nearest road access , and major leads are up to 3 miles inside the cave , camping is almost obligatory . We took the trucks down a rough 4-wheel track to where it fizzled out in the middle of the forest . A long trek down into the cañon following an ill-defined trail led to the base of the cliff . Peter Sprouse climbed up and rigged a rope for hauling . It was during the hauling that Peter's pack broke loose and crashed down into a boulder wiping out one set of surveying gear and all our water purifier . Once we were all assembled in the 20m high entrance , it was getting quite late , but it was only a half hour trek in huge passage to Camp 1 in a side passage above a large static sump . The first day from Camp 1 established a general pattern as we split into three surveying groups working in different areas . I went with Jerry Atkinson , Del Holman and Duwain Whitus into a complex area near the Confusion Tubes on a photographic and surveying trip . The American style of exploring new caves is the only one possible in an area with so much open and going , so we started surveying into virgin passage , eventually extending this area down to the first running water found at Gnome Springs . The second day out , Jerry , Randy , Don and myself went into Moria , the westernmost area of the lower cave , discovered the previous year , which was near base level , and had a powerful draughting choke heading out towards the Great Western System . Jerry placed a substantial charge in the choke , but failed to clear it . The fumes soon cleared in the draught and we spent two hours digging but without success . On the next day a "" Glub Glub "" trip was planned into Isopod River in which a small stream had developed into a canal downstream . This necessitated heading along the route toward the top of the system , climbing up into the Confusion Tubes . From here we trogged along for half a mile in huge passages to a boulder area which got quite thrutchy . Duwain and I opened up a route to a deep blue canal which we decided to survey . This soon proved abortive in one direction due to low airspace , and the other way eventually led back to known passage , so we tried a dry route which turned out to be an alternative route through the Breakdown Maze back toward Infiernillo . Having spent several hours on this investigation , we decided that we no longer had time to visit Isopod River and so thrashed back to Camp 1 at high speed . On day four , Jerry and I planned to return to the Gnome Springs area with Don and Sheri , but when we got to Misty Borehole , we decided to look briefly at an unpushed climb at the end of this tube . Don tried out a few moves and suddenly shot up the wall , into a hole and out at roof level , much to our surprise . He then traversed over the top and into going passage and vanished for some time , only to return with news of a major borehole . We hurriedly rigged a handline and ascended to start surveying . The rift above soon turned into a tube and then developed into something unusual for the cave - a classic keyhole passage some 2-5m deep below a 2m tube . There were lots of side leads , but the main way carried all the air and we emerged into a sizeable tube . Unfortunately this did n't continue too far before a large flowstone blockage , but a side passage led to an area with cave ice pools and bacon rind stal , from where a beautiful flat flowstone floored tube ascended steeply to a series of climbs . Here we met a small stream depositing calcite which we thought could well feed Gnome Springs , but the water sank into a tiny vertical tube and our route was up the small waterfall into another tube almost blocked by flowstone . The water came from a small passage but the way continued to a deep rift in the floor which we traversed , past a pom-pom stalactite to a climb down into an increasingly complex and muddy area . Here we ran out of time and after a short run ahead we headed back to Camp 1 , pausing only to name the area Ithilien . Back at Camp 1 we found that the "" 40 kilometre "" party had taken place on the assumption that we had bagged enough booty , but that we had been so long that everyone else had now crashed out . Owing to lack of motivation , and one illness , day 5 was declared the last day of the camp , so we decided to get as far into the cave as possible in two groups - one finally getting into Isopod River and one to take photographs in the Netherhall , a very large chamber about two and a half miles into the system . Beyond the Breakdown Maze , the South Trunk continued very large again to the turn off to the lower Isopod River where the wet team were getting changed . We left them and headed into the Monkey Walk , an awkward stretch of passage with low roof and bouldery floor , leading eventually to the Isopod River , a large passage with a small stream meandering between gravel banks , and containing colonies of troglobytic isopods like little piles of white rice in the stream , which gave the passage its name . By traversing the few pools which blocked the passage , we were able to reach the site of Camp 2 on a shingle bank in dry gear , and from here we started to climb up immediately to reach the Netherhall , which contains a 500 ' high boulder pile - like climbing Great Gable at night . After about half an hour of upward slogging on scree , we reached the summit and spread out to get an idea of scale before spending the next five hours taking photos . This involved firing off over 60 large flashbulbs for two exposures , each with three cameras set up and the second involving various minions from the Isopod River team . Unfortunately , these photographs later proved to be useless and by the time we had made our way back to Camp 1 we had been caving for eleven hours . The next day , everyone had entrance fever to a greater or lesser extent , but by the time we had taken in the shock of all those COLOURS on the eyes and abseiled out into the heat and the flies , it was mid-afternoon . The slog up to the trucks seemed much longer on the way back , and it was dark by the time we reached Conrado Castillo . The Yerbabuena fiasco While the main group went to look at some old mines and possible leads , Jerry and I set off for La Yerbabuena , a small village about 7 km to the south where a sizeable cave ( Calenturas ) had been explored and a resurgence had been seen but not yet reached . We intended to abseil down the cliff that had stopped the previous party , but when , the next day , we struggled down through dense forest on a steep slope to reach the top of the cliff , we found that our 40m rope was hardly sufficient to descend what turned out to be very much the same size and shape as Malham Cove . A large stream was emerging from under an overhang , and we were able to drop rocks into the water about 80m below . The stream falls over a further large cliff into an inaccessible cañon , making an abseil from above the only feasible method of access to what may well be a significant cave . We retreated much frustrated and next day returned to Conrado Castillo to complain about inaccurate information from the previous party . Brinco Camp 3 After this , there was a rapid personnel change - Duwain and Del left and Louise Hose had arrived with Jim Pisarowicz from elsewhere in Mexico . Shortly later , Don and Sheri left , and Jerry , feeling ill , went with them , numbers being made up by the arrival of Patty Mothes and Roy Jameson . The next major project was to be Camp 3 - another major camp , this time a new camp to be set for the first time in the upper cave , about 350m below the Cueva del Brinco entrance and around two miles inside the cave . As the entrance series of the upper cave is much smaller than Infiernillo , but also wet , we had to arrange for gear packs to split into smaller units and be completely waterproof . As this was a new camp , it was thought best to have a supply run to set camp up , followed by a lighter trip to move in any gear which did n't make it first time . We spent a lot of time preparing for the first trip , finally getting underground at 2 pm on Monday 6th April . It is the norm here to spend a long time eating before a long trip and to set off fairly late - there is n't the usual Yorkshire problem of getting out in time for the pub ! Despite its proximity to the fieldhouse , this was the first time I had been into Brinco , but with the heavy gear , we were all moving slowly , so I had a reasonable chance to look around . The first part ( Historic Section ) is roomy and dry with many dead formations . We descended a fair way , mostly in steep passage but with a few climbs , until we reached the Dressing Room . This is where the fun starts with a wet thrutch , The Chute , followed by a narrow fissure , The Crack of Doom . This was quite time consuming with large packs , but once through , progress in the Lunar Way was faster , though strenuous , until another delay at Mud Ball Crawl . Beyond the crawl , the passage opened out into Rio Verde , a steeply descending streamway with steep gours and deep green pools , leading pleasantly to Flowstone Falls , a 20m freeclimb which we , however , rigged with a line to facilitate descent with heavy packs . The falls drop straight into a swimming canal and further cascade before a series of squeezes obstructed the way . Another steep climb led to the beginning of The Canal - a low airspace wade for some way in muddy water . This ended in a climb up and over a barrier and through a lake to the Speedway Bypass - a somewhat awkward passage breaking out dramatically at The World Beyond . The World Beyond is a major trunk passage carrying the largest stream in the system directly away from the resurgence for almost two miles . The going varies from deep swims of up to 100m , to a meandering stream among gravel banks , to climbs over large scale collapse . This ends abruptly where the stream , augmented by a major inlet of unknown source ( possibly Valkyrie River ) , cuts down to the right to form the Angel's Staircase , eventually sumping at - 600m . The main way on to Infiernillo and Camp 3 is to the left starting a series of steep climbs over rotting flowstone and a major change of direction at a pitch . Shortly below this was the site of Camp 3 - a roomy chamber with a coarse gravel floor and a couple of deep pools . Here we dumped the gear and had a rest before setting out for the surface . The trip back out , while not particularly fast , was a good deal easier without too much gear , and we arrived fairly fresh at the Dressing Room , and DRY GEAR . It was only a short run to the surface where we emerged to pleasant sunny daylight at 8.30 am - it had taken us 181 ⁄ 2 hours to set Camp 3 . Needless to say , this was followed by three days of rest before we set off for the real camp . Carrying only sleeping bags and light gear , we moved much faster - the whole party knew the way this time which also helped , so we got back to the camp in just over six hours . Day one of Camp three ( camp days were on average 28 hours , so we went quite a long way ' out of synch ' with the surface ) we set out in a "" boys party "" of Peter , Roy and myself to investigate southbound leads nearer to Infiernillo , while the "" girls party "" of Terri , Louise and Patty went surveying in Gypsum Passage - the southernmost part of the system . It turned out that the passages we surveyed had been explored by the team who first found the connection from the Infiernillo side , but which were generally rather unpleasant with muddy chalkification of the walls . Saturnalia did not lead anywhere of great note , and we returned to camp to find that the girls had reached a solid aragonite blockage in a very pretty passage with no draught . Day two saw the girls surveying a large passage leading from beyond Saturnalia , but which soon broke up into small pointless tubes , while we headed nearer to Infiernillo to investigate a side passage heading north parallel with the main route . Ganymede Passage proved to be a major trunk passage but ended in small tubes which descended abruptly over rotting travertine to a lower series which we did not investigate . Instead , we traversed over lakes in the main route to Infiernillo to find another large passage parallel with the main line , which had also been found from the Infiernillo end . This was easy surveying until the tape got clogged with mud . Day three saw me back in this passage , this time with Louise and Terri , and we reached a complex junction area from where our route turned out to be a dead end . Returning to the junction , we folowed footprints into a large maze area , Medusa's Maze , which descended down the dip of a major joint to an area with attractive formations . On day four , both parties worked in and around Medusa's Maze , and we extended the area downwards until stopped by a large phreatic lift going steeply up , The Wall , which proved rather loose at the top . Below this , however , we found yet another downward lead into smaller passages but with a strong draught . This area , Yawndwanaland , continually stepped north , then down dip , then south along the strike , then down dip , then north along the strike and so on , moving very slowly west on balance until at the end of the day we reached a steep climb down . Louise went to investigate , and found that it dropped into a major north-south passage which must by now be both deeper and further west than the main route to Infiernillo . As this passage seemed to promise the major breakthrough needed to extend the system at depth under the ridge to the south , where sinks lie up to 1600m above the Infiernillo sumps , both parties were fielded into it the next day . We elected to survey north while Peter , Roy and Patty went south . Our lead , Death Coral Rift , headed dead straight in a high rift floored with death coral , a sort of muddy calcite encrustation that seems to grow in passage annually flooded with turbid saturated water which drains slowly . We shot leg after leg , mainly easy and long , until we came to a shattered chamber . Climbs led to more bouldery passage , still heading north , until we came to a conclusive , but draughting choke apparently close to the Netherhall . From here we headed back the 800m we had surveyed to see how the others had got on . After stopping for a few photos , we met the other group just beyond the entry point in enlarging passage . They had surveyed over 1200m in generally large draughting passage heading south all the way . This passage was now nearly as far south as the southernmost point of the system . We returned to camp elated after fourteen and a half hours , and discussed stretching food supplies to allow one survey team to carry on south . When Peter , Terri and Louise set off next "" morning "" however , they quickly returned , having found the system was in flood . This meant that the World Beyond would be difficult , but more important , the Canal might be sumped . Roy , Patty and I set off for the surface immediately , while the others packed up their camp gear . As we ascended the pitch , we could hear the roar of the World Beyond Stream . Fortunately , the passage is large , and the stream by no means impassable , so we quickly hurried on . When we reached the passage just before The Canal , we were relieved to be free of the roar of the stream but worried to find that the draught appeared to be absent . I lowered myself gingerly into The Canal and swum to the lowest point where I found that , though the water was higher , there was still a draught howling through the small airspace . At some risk to lights , we all got through , thinking that our troubles were now over - but the sight that greeted us at the end of The Canal soon changed all that . The Rio Verde stream had risen from a tiny trickle to a sizeable torrent crashing down the climbs , making these very sporting , and causing havoc with the lights in the squeezes . When we reached the Flowstone Falls , it became apparent that it could n ' t be climbed , even with my Oldham lamp , so we were very glad of the rope we had rigged , though somewhat worried about possible abrasion in the water . I prusikked first , and re-rigged the rope to move the fairly minor abrasion clear , then illuminated the pitch while the others climbed . The rest of the Rio Verde was equally sporting and it was a relief to reach dry passage at Mud Ball Crawl . A brief panic hit us as we heard a loud roar from the Crack of Doom , but the torrent here proved to be mainly illusory . We did n't bother to change into dry gear as we slogged slowly out of the Historic section to be met by Jim Pisarowicz just inside the entrance as we emerged just before midday after ten hours caving . We crashed out quickly in case we had to go back in to take a food stash for the others , as we were sure that The Canal would soon sump behind us . But in fact the others came out about three hours after us , having dumped some gear at the World Beyond . We learned from Jim that almost four inches of rain had fallen in the previous three days , as the start of the wet season was approaching . While Camp 3 was busily succeeding , Jim had not been idle , having spent the time in surface prospecting on the ridge to the south . Of several holes he had investigated , two looked particularly promising , situated above the area that the new Camp 3 passage was heading for , and we soon set off to investigate these . The large hole was a 5m diameter shaft in the bottom of a wooded shakehole , which sounded very deep . We put a 93m rope down it and Jim set off only to find that it was too short . I was volunteered to go next , with two spare ropes to tie on . In fact only one was needed , and when I had passed the knot and sorted out the tangle of rope below it , I was able to reach the floor 105m below the takeoff . The shaft was slightly damp and distinctly chilly , suggesting that it was n ' t going to go , but as my eyes adjusted I found a small rift in the wall leading to a further pitch , so as Louise came down with the survey rope from above , I rigged the remaining rope and descended to a ledge about - 15m overlooking a further drop with large flowstone cascades on the far side ; we were clearly going to have to come back another day . I reascended the small pitch to meet Louise , talking to Peter , who had the top of the tape about halfway down the pitch . The survey showed it to be 105 . 5m long , but as further progress was impossible , I set off to reascend . About 10m from the top , hidden in vegetation , an unprotected rub had cut into even super-resistant PMI enough to cause concern , and several minutes were spent arranging some protection before Peter and Louise came up . On the next trip , Jim descended the smaller pot to find it choked at - 36m so we quickly abandoned Pozu del Peso and returned to the deeper Sotano del Rama . Jim , Lousie and Peter set off down , and about two hours later returned having found a choke at about - 140m . After this , Jim and Louise left , leaving just Peter , Terri and myself to spend the final week in sundry pursuits , such as retrieving the last of the gear from the World Beyond , surveying in some of the smaller local caves and surface surveying , before returning to the US . The Spring Project was pretty successful , extending the system from 38km to 45 . 5km , closely challenging Easegill in the world length stakes . A lot of extremely high quality caving was done and I would like to express my most sincere thanks to Peter and the Proyecto Espeleologico Purificación for allowing me to join them in 1981 . I hope to be able to return to assist in future years in this magnificent system . Andrew Waddington NPC Large Pot Journal 1982 : Next page : Back to contents Previous page : Mexico 1981 - the background Out of print publications list Northern Pennine Club Home page"	Opinion/Argumentation
1671	"World War I , also called First World War or Great War , an international conflict that in 1914 – 18 embroiled most of the nations of Europe along with Russia , the United States , the Middle East , and other regions . The war pitted the Central Powers – mainly Germany , Austria-Hungary , and Turkey – against the Allies – mainly France , Great Britain , Russia , Italy , Japan , and , from 1917 , the United States . It ended with the defeat of the Central Powers . The war was virtually unprecedented in the slaughter , carnage , and destruction it caused . A British soldier inside a trench on the Western Front during World War I , 1914 – 18 . Hulton Archive / Getty Images World War I was one of the great watersheds of 20th-century geopolitical history . It led to the fall of four great imperial dynasties ( in Germany , Russia , Austria-Hungary , and Turkey ) , resulted in the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia , and , in its destabilization of European society , laid the groundwork for World War II . A collection of significant facts about World War I. The outbreak of war With Serbia already much aggrandized by the two Balkan Wars ( 1912 – 13 , 1913 ) , Serbian nationalists turned their attention back to the idea of "" liberating "" the South Slavs of Austria-Hungary . Colonel Dragutin Dimitrijević , head of Serbia's military intelligence , was also , under the alias "" Apis , "" head of the secret society Union or Death , pledged to the pursuit of this pan-Serbian ambition . Believing that the Serbs' cause would be served by the death of the Austrian archduke Franz Ferdinand , heir presumptive to the Austrian emperor Franz Joseph , and learning that the Archduke was about to visit Bosnia on a tour of military inspection , Apis plotted his assassination . Nikola Pašić , the Serbian prime minister and an enemy of Apis , heard of the plot and warned the Austrian government of it , but his message was too cautiously worded to be understood . Overview of the start of World War I , including details of the June 28 , 1914 , assassination of ... Europeans were fighting heavily on two fronts before the U.S. entered the war in 1917 . At 11 : 15 am on June 28 , 1914 , in the Bosnian capital , Sarajevo , Franz Ferdinand and his morganatic wife , Sophie , duchess of Hohenberg , were shot dead by a Bosnian Serb , Gavrilo Princip . The chief of the Austro-Hungarian general staff , Franz , Graf ( count ) Conrad von Hötzendorf , and the foreign minister , Leopold , Graf von Berchtold , saw the crime as the occasion for measures to humiliate Serbia and so to enhance Austria-Hungary's prestige in the Balkans . Conrad had already ( October 1913 ) been assured by William II of Germany ' s support if Austria-Hungary should start a preventive war against Serbia . This assurance was confirmed in the week following the assassination , before William , on July 6 , set off upon his annual cruise to the North Cape , off Norway . Austrian archduke Franz Ferdinand and his wife , Sophie , riding in an open carriage at Sarajevo ... Henry Guttmann – Hulton Archive / Getty Images The Austrians decided to present an unacceptable ultimatum to Serbia and then to declare war , relying on Germany to deter Russia from intervention . Though the terms of the ultimatum were finally approved on July 19 , its delivery was postponed to the evening of July 23 , since by that time the French president , Raymond Poincaré , and his premier , René Viviani , who had set off on a state visit to Russia on July 15 , would be on their way home and therefore unable to concert an immediate reaction with their Russian allies . When the delivery was announced , on July 24 , Russia declared that Austria-Hungary must not be allowed to crush Serbia . Serbia replied to the ultimatum on July 25 , accepting most of its demands but protesting against two of them – namely , that Serbian officials ( unnamed ) should be dismissed at Austria-Hungary's behest and that Austro-Hungarian officials should take part , on Serbian soil , in proceedings against organizations hostile to Austria-Hungary . Though Serbia offered to submit the issue to international arbitration , Austria-Hungary promptly severed diplomatic relations and ordered partial mobilization . Home from his cruise on July 27 , William learned on July 28 how Serbia had replied to the ultimatum . At once he instructed the German Foreign Office to tell Austria-Hungary that there was no longer any justification for war and that it should content itself with a temporary occupation of Belgrade . But , meanwhile , the German Foreign Office had been giving such encouragement to Berchtold that already on July 27 he had persuaded Franz Joseph to authorize war against Serbia . War was in fact declared on July 28 , and Austro-Hungarian artillery began to bombard Belgrade the next day . Russia then ordered partial mobilization against Austria-Hungary , and on July 30 , when Austria-Hungary was riposting conventionally with an order of mobilization on its Russian frontier , Russia ordered general mobilization . Germany , which since July 28 had still been hoping , in disregard of earlier warning hints from Great Britain , that Austria-Hungary's war against Serbia could be "" localized "" to the Balkans , was now disillusioned insofar as eastern Europe was concerned . On July 31 Germany sent a 24-hour ultimatum requiring Russia to halt its mobilization and an 18-hour ultimatum requiring France to promise neutrality in the event of war between Russia and Germany . Both Russia and France predictably ignored these demands . On August 1 Germany ordered general mobilization and declared war against Russia , and France likewise ordered general mobilization . The next day Germany sent troops into Luxembourg and demanded from Belgium free passage for German troops across its neutral territory . On August 3 Germany declared war against France . In the night of August 3 – 4 German forces invaded Belgium . Thereupon , Great Britain , which had no concern with Serbia and no express obligation to fight either for Russia or for France but was expressly committed to defend Belgium , on August 4 declared war against Germany . Austria-Hungary declared war against Russia on August 5 ; Serbia against Germany on August 6 ; Montenegro against Austria-Hungary on August 7 and against Germany on August 12 ; France and Great Britain against Austria-Hungary on August 10 and on August 12 , respectively ; Japan against Germany on August 23 ; Austria-Hungary against Japan on August 25 and against Belgium on August 28 . Romania had renewed its secret anti-Russian alliance of 1883 with the Central Powers on February 26 , 1914 , but now chose to remain neutral . Italy had confirmed the Triple Alliance on December 7 , 1912 , but could now propound formal arguments for disregarding it : first , Italy was not obliged to support its allies in a war of aggression ; second , the original treaty of 1882 had stated expressly that the alliance was not against England . On September 5 , 1914 , Russia , France , and Great Britain concluded the Treaty of London , each promising not to make a separate peace with the Central Powers . Thenceforth , they could be called the Allied , or Entente , powers , or simply the Allies . The outbreak of war in August 1914 was generally greeted with confidence and jubilation by the peoples of Europe , among whom it inspired a wave of patriotic feeling and celebration . Few people imagined how long or how disastrous a war between the great nations of Europe could be , and most believed that their country's side would be victorious within a matter of months . The war was welcomed either patriotically , as a defensive one imposed by national necessity , or idealistically , as one for upholding right against might , the sanctity of treaties , and international morality . Britannica Web sites World War I lasted from 1914 to 1918 . It was known at first as the Great War and the War to End All Wars . It was the largest war that the world had seen up to that time . Most of the battles took place in Europe and the Middle East . More than 8 million soldiers and sailors died , and more than 20 million were injured . The war was so bad that many people thought no one would ever start another war . However , the results of World War I helped to cause World War II , which broke out in 1939 . A major international conflict fought from 1914 to 1918 , World War I was the most deadly and destructive war the world had ever seen to that time . More than 25 countries eventually participated , aligned with either the Allied or the Central powers . The Allies-who won the war-included primarily France , Great Britain , Russia , Italy , Japan , and , from 1917 , the United States . The Central Powers consisted mainly of Germany , Austria-Hungary , and the Ottoman Empire ( Turkey ) . World War I felled four great imperial dynasties , in Germany , Russia , Austria-Hungary , and Turkey . It led to revolution in Russia , destabilized Europe , and laid the foundations for World War II . ( For a chronology of events for World War I , see World War I Chronology . )"	Information/Explanation
1506	To reshape and firm the breasts in an effort to reduce the sagging , and to tighten up the surrounding tissues , a breast lift is carried out . A good cosmetic surgeon will be able to assist you gain your confidence back . The majority of us have a part that we are uncomfortable with , and a quick operation to correct this part can help us to feel more attractive . The Correct Way To Get Bigger Breasts Naturally There are breast enhancements pills there are breasts enhancement lotions and what 's more today there are breast enhancement natural supplements . Now how is an individual supposed to know as to which of the options are good for her ? How One Can Enhance The Size Of Boobs Naturally There are many people who want to go in for breast enhancement however most of the people do not prefer to go in for the surgery of breast enhancement and are not aware of methods of how to enlarge breasts naturally .	Promotion
990	Following a record-setting year for orders in 2005 , a senior executive at Boeing has said that 2006 will be much quieter . This year the US aircraft manufacturer has received 806 orders for commercial planes , fuelled by Asian and Middle Eastern carriers . Of these , 185 were for the new 787 Dreamliner that is set to be delivered in 2008 , reports Reuters . The news comes shortly after Airbus announced it has agreed a deal with the Chinese government to manufacture 150 jets . Both Airbus and Boeing have been in competition this year to secure orders from airlines . Become an AOA Associate Member	News
928	"Chapter 6 : The Great Escape Sora and the one known as the Keyblade Hunter were in the cells till dawn . "" Okay mate , hit that stone with the carving of a heart on it . "" Sora did as he was told . CRUNCH ! The wall slid open and Sora and the Keyblade Hunter went through it . "" Are you sure this will get us outta here ? "" "" Positive mate . "" He said . He turned around and Sora saw he had a tail . "" You 're a demon ? "" He asked . "" Half demon , now c ' mon ! "" Are we there yet ? "" Tidus asked , while he was fishing . "" We should get there by tommor - Holy ! What is that ? "" Everyone looked up to see that the water was rising . "" That 's the Wall of Wonders . "" Kairi said . "" Where does the freaky lookin ' door lead to ? "" Tidus said . "" What door man ? "" Said Wakka . "" Way down at the bottom . See it ? "" Tidus said . "" It leads to Kingdom Hearts . "" Kairi said . "" Let 's go ! "" Said Riku jumping off the raft , and sliding down the water . Everyone else followed . Leaving the raft to get swallowed by the sea . "" Got your Keyblade mate ? "" "" Yeah . "" Sora said . The tunnel was very dark . And water was all over the place . "" If you 're trying to kill me how come you 're helping me escape ? "" Sora asked . "" Never said I was gonna kill ya mate . Just bring ya in . "" "" Bring me in ? "" "" Yeah , you got 50,000 munny spheres on your head mate , your wanted by the order of Kingdom Hearts , dead or alive . "" "" So you 're a bounty hunter ? "" "" Basically mate . Hang on ... "" "" What is it ? "" Sora said . "" Chromes . "" The demon replied . "" Chromes ? "" "" Nasty little buggers . Little monsters that 'll pick you bone dry . "" "" Anyone home ? "" Riku said as everyone walked in . Riku pulled out his sword , Tidus pulled out his pole and Wakka took out his blitz ball . "" Hello ? Anyone here ? "" Riku shouted . Again no one answered . Riku walked up to the big armchair by the fireplace and - SLIIIIIING ! He stuck his sword into it . He turned the chair around and noone was there . He took out his sword . "" Why the heck did you do that ? Now people will know we 're here ! "" "" We already new you were here ! "" said an eerie voice from behind . "" C ' mon mate , let 's find another way outta this . "" They walked for two hours before they came across six cloaked guards . "" C ' mon then , I 'll take three , you take three . "" The guards pulled out swords of power and started to fight . SMACK ! Sora destroyed one with a powerful sonic blade attack . "" Ultima weapon ! "" Sora shouted as the Oblivion started to change looks . "" Strike ! "" Sora shouted as he wailed the Keyblade at his target . Five times and it was down . Clang , Clang , Smack ! The cloaked guards were dead . A few minutes later they reached the end of the tunnel . Where the entrance to the Kingdom was . The Keyblade Hunter held out his hand and said : "" Munny . "" "" Oh yeah sorry ... "" Sora said . He began handing him his money when he heard a loud shreik of terror which sounded like Kairi . "" Hold on that 's my friend . I gotta help her . "" "" Sigh ... Okay mate let 's go then ... """	Prose/Lyrical
1212	"US election 2016 : Hour-by-hour guide to the night A clock sits outside of Trump Tower Is Trump's time up ? Road to the White House Key issues - where candidates stand All you need to know about the US election Trump v Clinton : Who 's ahead in the polls ? US election on the BBC - How to keep up Americans go to the polls on 8 November to elect the 45th US president . Here 's what to watch out for as election night unfolds . All 50 states and Washington DC will go to the polls across six different time zones on election day . But it 's not just winning the popular vote that counts . The US's complicated system is a race to secure 270 out of the 538 votes in the electoral college . Most of the US will have to wait for polling stations to close - typically between 19 : 00 EST ( 24 : 00 GMT ) and 20 : 00 EST ( 01 : 00 GMT ) - for state projections , which are based on exit polls . However , one village , Dixville Notch in New Hampshire - the UK's Sunderland of America - has a tradition of middle-of-the-night voting and will have declared its result before the polls even open , at 00 : 01 EST ( 05 : 01 GMT ) . Here 's what 's likely to happen when , based on when polls close , with the caveat that all times are subject to change if it 's too close to call . As for the final result ? Stay glued to your phone or TV or set your alarm for 23 : 00 EST ( 04 : 00 GMT ) . That 's when West Coast polls close and history suggests a winner 's declared . It was bang on the hour in 2008 , and 15 minutes later in 2012 . 19 : 00 EST ( 00 : 00 GMT ) Early voting signImage copyrightAP East Coast polling booths close and counting begins . All eyes will be on the key battleground state of Virginia ( 13 electoral votes ) , which voted for Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012 but was previously solid Republican . If Donald Trump is victorious here , or if it 's a close win for Hillary Clinton , it could portend a very long , stressful night for the Democrats , according to the BBC's North America reporter Anthony Zurcher . Georgia ( 16 ) is another one to watch . The state has voted Republican since 1996 , but the party's margin of victory has eroded in recent elections . Also expect projections from Indiana ( 11 ) home to Trump running mate Mike Pence , Kentucky ( 8 ) , South Carolina ( 9 ) and Vermont ( 3 ) . 19 : 30 EST ( 00 : 30 GMT ) Polls close in two further important states , North Carolina ( 15 ) and Ohio ( 18 ) . North Carolina defines the American divide . "" It 's seen an influx of newcomers . Many of them lean Democrat . But poor white voters tip North Carolina's rural areas towards Donald Trump , "" the BBC's Katty Kay says . The state could be an early indicator of which way the election is going to go . Ohio is one of the most hotly expected results . The bellwether swing state has backed the winner at every presidential contest except one since World War Two . West Virginia ( 5 ) , which has voted Republican since 2000 , is also likely to be projected . 20 : 00 EST ( 01 : 00 GMT ) Donald Trump gestures as he holds a crying babyImage copyrightAP Rush hour will probably be from 20 : 00 EST ( 01 : 00 GMT ) to 21 : 00 EST ( 02 : 00 GMT ) Rush hour begins . Maine ( 4 ) , Maryland ( 10 ) , Massachusetts ( 11 ) , New Jersey ( 14 ) , Rhode Island ( 4 ) , Delaware ( 3 ) , Connecticut ( 7 ) and the District of Columbia ( 3 ) are among the East Coast states that will be projected . The key battleground of Florida ( 29 ) , which is crucial to the fortunes of any presidential contender , could also come in . The state voted for Obama in 2008 and 2012 , but George W Bush won it in preceding elections - by just 537 votes in 2000 . However , that year it took 36 days for Bush to be certified as the winner , as the vote triggered a recount and legal showdown , so if it 's close do n't expect an annoucement for a while . We should hear from Pennsylvania ( 20 ) , which has swung for the Democrats in the previous six elections . It will be a big blow to Clinton if she does n't win here . New Hampshire ( 4 ) will be eagerly watched as the polls suggest it 's a dead heat . A number of Republican strongholds - Mississippi ( 6 ) , Missouri ( 10 ) , Alabama ( 9 ) , Tennessee ( 11 ) and Oklahoma ( 7 ) - should come in . As should Obama's home state of Illinois ( 20 ) , which is expected to hand its votes to Clinton . By this point , we should have a fairly clear idea which side is going to have the upper hand , even before many states are projected to have been won or lost ."	News
1198	Volunteer Opportunities Our volunteers come in all sizes , shapes and colors , but their hearts are pink and their caring has no limit . Are you a leader , a thinker or a doer ? Use your talents in our promise to save lives and end breast cancer forever ! We need you now more than ever . Volunteers provide countless hours contributing their skills to further the Susan G. Komen promise . We will work with your availability . Every minute you spend helping gives another minute of hope to those affected by breast cancer . Program areas include : Development / Special Events Community Programs Advocacy Administrative Marketing / Advertising To be considered for one of the above volunteer positions , please fill out the Volunteer Application .	Promotion
800	Central Nervous System ( CNS ) Lymphoma The central nervous system includes our brain and spinal cord . In this area , there are lots of different types of cells , including lymph cells . Lymph cells are found in our immune system ( the system in our bodies that fights illnesses ) . A cancer tumour made from these types of cells is called a lymphoma . A CNS lymphoma therefore , is a cancer tumour made from lymph cells in the brain or spinal cord .	Information/Explanation
975	Keyword Strategy tips Ensure your keywords are relevant to your site . Focus on one or two keywords or phrases . A more targetted approach will boost your search engine ranking . Consider your audience and what terms they may be searching for . Include an area in your keyword phrase for example . Add keyword rich meta tags to your site . Search engines will spider the title meta tags first . Unless you have a well known company name , do n't include this as a keyword phrase . Descriptive and specific keyword phrases are better for your site's ranking .	Instruction
369	This site will tell you how to remove the oil pump mechanism . I am very receptive to comments and suggestions but you use this information at your own risk . Skill Levels explained . Skill Level with engine out : 1 . with engine in frame : 2 . Personally dirty : 2 . Work mess : 1 . Tools : 1 . Space : 1 . You do n't need to remove the engine from the frame . In most of these pictures , Valiant's engine is removed , but it was out anyway , for other work to be done . All nut and bolt sizes are given as the spanner size required to fit them . Warm the engine and then drain the oil . It is not absolutely essential to remove the radiator , as you can get by with just lifting it out of the way after unbolting it , but really it 's better to remove it . The front casing is much easier to remove if the radiator and fan are not in place . Disconnect the clutch cable at the clutch end . This is secured by two 10mm nuts ; slacken them full off , use a pair of pliers to raise the clutch arm , and slide out the nipple ( at the end of the cable ) from the clutch arm . Remove the 8mm head bolts which attach the front crankcase , and gently pry off the front cover . Do n't use force , and especially do n't use a screwdriver between the mating faces . In the photo ( right ) the clutch cover has been taken off as well , but you need n ' t do this . The bendy black tube is one of the oil feeds . Carefully remove all traces of the old gasket . Inside the open engine ( left ) . The oil pump itself is hidden behind the large shiny sprocket . This is driven by a chain directly from the crankshaft . Close-up of the crankshaft end , the oil pump drive chain , its sprocket and you can just see the oil pump behind the sprocket . The large outer pinion on the crankshaft is what drives the clutch outer basket . This drives the inner basket and that connects to the gearbox . Remove the bolt which holds on the sprocket , and pull it off with the chain ( left ) . Unbolt the oil pump from the opened crankcase , and pull it off complete with its lower pipe and the metal strainer . Frightening is n't it , what was caught on the strainer ? Having upturned ( left ) the strainer , this is what I found . Tiny bits of metal , plus some slivers of gasket and sealing compound . If you are not replacing the pump , wash off all these bits in paraffin or petrol . The oil pump chain is a continuous one and does not have a split link . If it shows sign of wear , or on reassembly it can not be correctly tensioned , you should replace it . The CX500 oil pumps are extremely simple in operation and correspondngly reliable ; they often go to 100,000 miles without replacement . They are what 's called trochoidal , which means that they work rather like a heart . An inner star-shaped steel rotor , with four arms , rotates inside an outer rotor with five corresponding cutouts . Oil is pumped between the chambers as the assembly rotates , and goes out into the oil passageways inside the engine . I 'd recommend changing the chain at 40,000 miles but the pump will be good for more than this . If you want to dismantle the pump itself , do so under surgically clean conditions . You can check the internal tolerances if you want to , but you 'll probably need an impact driver to get the holding screws out . If you dismantle the pump , there should not be more than 39 / 1000ths clearance between the inner and outer rotors , and no more than 138 / 1000ths between the outer rotor and the body of the pump . On reassembly , note that the punch mark on the outer rotor faces outwards , you should be able to see it during reassembly . Before reassembly , wash or wipe out the oil sump at the bottom of the crankcase area ( left ) . You can see the dipstick poking through in the picture . Any sludge or muck shows neglect in changing the oil and filter . A well maintained engine should be free of all deposits . Reassembly is a simple process . Do n't forget to renew the O-rings around the oil transfer passages . Ensure the 2 hollow dowels are in place ; the one at the top ( right ) and the one between the oil pump body and the front casing . Do n't omit the oil jet and O-ring adjacent to the clutch ( right ) . Finally remember to replace the O-ring directly beneath the oil pump . This feeds into the curly pipe built into the front crankcase cover . To correctly tension the chain , replace the oil pump on its mountings and insert the holding bolts not quite finger tight . Loop the chain over the crankshaft pinion and over the oil pump sprocket and locate the sprocket on the pump . It sits in a shaped slot on the oil pump's spindle . Insert the sprocket's locking bolt and tighten it to 6-9 ft lbs. Now wiggle the pump on its mounting bolts so that there is no slack in the chain and tighten the bolts to 6 ft lbs. Check the chain again afterwards . When replacing the front cover , I recommend using a gasket sealant like Hylomar , spread thinly onto both faces , with the actual gasket in between . Insert the 8mm head bolts and tighten finger tight , then in a diagonal sequence to not more than 6 ft lbs - they are easily stripped . Wipe off any excess sealant . Tachometer ( rev counter ) drive CXs sometimes develop an oil smear from the behind the radiator . This weep comes from a failed oil seal on the tachometer casing . It is easily replaced without removing the front cover , but you do need to remove the radiator and fan . You 'll need a new oil seal and tacho casing gasket . The tacho drive assembly is bolted over the front end of the camshaft , directly behind the radiator and directly above the crankshaft . It 's held on with four bolts , and then the assembly can be gently prised off ( left ) . Carefully remove all traces of the old gasket . The leaking seal is the one which fits inside the tacho drive casing , over the end of the camshaft . Poke out the old seal and insert the new one , it goes with its closed end facing outwards , towards the fan . Before refitting the casing , smear a glob of grease over the camshaft's end . Then fit the new casing gasket , again with a sealant like Hylomar . Tighten the four holding bolts back to 6-9 ft lbs. I recommend changing the oil and filter after 500 miles .	Instruction
1029	"TERMS AND CONDITIONS These standard terms will be deemed incorporated into any contract for the sale and purchase of goods sold by HHB unless and to the extent that they may be varied by an authorised employee of HHB . 1 INTERPRETATION 1.1 In these Conditions "" Conditions "" means the standard terms and conditions set out in this document and ( unless the context otherwise requires ) includes the particulars of any sale as set out in a delivery note issued by HHB to the Customer and any special terms and conditions otherwise agreed in writing by an authorised employee of HHB . "" Customer "" means the person who accepts a quotation made by HHB for the sale of Goods or whose order for Goods is accepted by HHB . "" HHB "" means HHB Communications Limited ( company registration number 2316543 registered in England ) whose registered office is at 73-75 Scrubs Lane London NWI0 6QU . "" Contract "" means the contract for the sale and purchase of Goods . "" Writing "" includes telex , cable , facsimile transmission or other comparable media acceptable in a Court of Law in England . 1.2 Any reference in these Conditions to any provision of any statute shall be construed as a reference to that provision as amended re-enacted or extended at the relevant time . 1.3 The headings in these Conditions are for convenience only and shall not affect their meaning or interpretation . 1.4 Any reference in these Conditions to an authorised employee of HHB shall mean any director of HHB . 1.5 If a Customer comprises more than one person the liability of such persons shall be joint and several . 1.6 Any typographical clerical or other error or omission in any sales literature quotation price list acceptance or offer invoice delivery note or other document issued by HHB shall be subject to correction without any liability on the part of HHB . 2 FORMATION OF CONTRACT 2.1 All Contracts entered into by HHB shall be deemed to incorporate these Conditions to the exclusion of any other terms and conditions whether appearing in any document or other communication used by the Customer in concluding any contract with HHB or otherwise . 2.2 All Contracts are personal to the Customer specified on HHB's delivery note and may not be assigned provided that HHB shall in its discretion be entitled to assign or otherwise deal with the whole or any part of the liabilities of the Customer to HHB as HHB shall deem fit . 2.3 If the identity of the Customer shall be wrongly specified or misrepresented to HHB on any order accepted by HHB the individual specifying the Customer shall be liable personally to HHB as if the Customer . 2.4 No variation to these Conditions shall be binding on HHB unless agreed in writing by an authorised employee of HHB . 2.5 HHB's employees or agents are not authorised to make any representations concerning Goods unless confirmed by an authorised employee of HHB in writing . In entering into the Contract the Customer acknowledges that it does not rely upon and waives any claim for breach of any such representations which are not so confirmed . 2.6 Any advice or recommendation given by HHB or its employees or agents to the Customer or its employees or agents as to the storage application or use of Goods which is not confirmed in writing by an authorised employee of HHB is followed or acted upon at the Customers entire risk and expense and HHB shall not be liable for any such advice or recommendation not so confirmed . 3 QUOTATIONS No quotation of HHB shall constitute an offer and all quotations shall lapse after 30 days but may be withdrawn by notice at any time . 4 PRICES 4.1 Prices quoted are , unless otherwise stated , ex-works exclusive of VAT carriage freight and insurance . 4.2 VAT will be charged at the rate appropriate at the date of the invoice . 4.3 Where a price is quoted in a currency other than £ sterling the invoice price unless otherwise agreed by an authorised employee of HHB in writing will be calculated in £ sterling by reference to the mid-market rate offered by HHB's bankers at the date of invoice . 4.4 Unless otherwise agreed by an authorised employee of HHB in writing prices for Goods shall be as published by HHB from time to time subject to alteration upon HHB notifying the Customer at any time before invoice whereupon the Customer shall be entitled to cancel the Contract without liability in writing to HHB within three days of receipt of such notice . 4.5 Where carriage freight or insurance is arranged by HHB it will be at the cost of the Customer . Any such insurance shall exclude losses owing to terrorism . 5 PAYMENT 5.1 Payment for Goods shall be made by the Customer upon receipt of invoice or otherwise in accordance with the terms stipulated on invoice or agreed with an authorised employee of HHB . 5.2 The Customer shall not be entitled to withhold payment in whole or in part in respect of any claim it may have against HHB under or arising from any other Contract . 5.3 Interest at the rate of 2 per cent per month compounded monthly shall be payable by any Customer on sums not paid to HHB when due from the due date until receipt of payment inclusive of such interest in full by HHB . 5.4 Time shall be of the essence of payment . 5.5 Should payment of any sums due to HHB not be paid when due HHB may in its discretion without prejudice to any other right or remedy available to it suspend or cancel any further deliveries to the Customer whether under the particular Contract or otherwise and in the case of suspension until payment of all outstanding amounts has been received by HHB . 5.6 If the Customer fails for any reason to pay any sum owing to HHB when due HHB ( without prejudice to any other remedy available to HHB ) may at any time thereafter without notice cancel the Contract in writing and shall thereafter resell the Goods at such price as HHB shall consider reasonable . The Customer shall indemnify and keep indemnified HHB against the difference between the invoice price to the Customer and the resale price together with all costs ( including without limitation any professional costs ) expenses and storage charges incurred pending or upon such resale . Method of payment shall be at the discretion of HHB . 6 DELIVERY AND PACKING 6.1 Unless otherwise agreed in writing by an authorised employee of HHB delivery of Goods shall be ex HHB's principal premises or at HHB's discretion from manufacturers or other premises in the United Kingdom . 6.2 If HHB agrees to arrange delivery pursuant to any Contract delivery shall be at the risk and expense of the Customer and if made by a third party carrier shall be subject to the third party's standard terms and conditions whether or not the Customer shall have prior notice of the same . 6.3 No liability shall attach to HHB for failure to deliver at any stated time or on any stated date nor shall HHB have any liability for any delivery made to the stated address when unattended or attended by a person or persons other than the Customer . 6.4 Where delivery is to be arranged by HHB the right is reserved to deliver Goods in more than one consignment and without prior notice . 6.5 HHB shall not be obliged to comply with any of the Customers packing instructions or requests . The specification for packing shall be in HHB's entire discretion in such materials and in such quantities as HHB shall think fit . 7 RISK From the time of despatch or collection from HHB's premises ( or from manufacturers or other premises in the United Kingdom ) Goods shall be at the entire risk and expense of the Customer . 8 PROPERTY IN GOODS 8.1 Notwithstanding delivery or the passing of risk or any other provisions of these Conditions or other provisions which may be implied in these Conditions the property in Goods shall not pass to the Customer until HHB has received payment in full of all sums which may then be due or owing by the Customer to HHB whether under the particular Contract relating to Goods or any other Contract . For the purposes of this clause 8 payment is made to HHB in the case of cash when released to HHB's control to the exclusion of the Customer and in the case of payment by any other method when money is irrevocably credited to HHB's bank account and all claims in respect of such money by or through the Customer are excluded . 8.2 Until the property in Goods passes to the Customer the Customer shall hold Goods as HHB's fiduciary agent and bailee and shall keep Goods separate from those of the Customer or any other person properly stored identified as belonging to HHB protected and insured . Until property so passes the Customer shall be entitled to sell or reuse Goods in the ordinary course of its business but shall hold the proceeds ( tangible and intangible ) of any resale reuse or of any insurance claim upon trust for HHB and shall account to HHB for the same and shall keep all such proceeds separate from its own monies or property and in the case of tangible proceeds stored protected and insured . 8.3 Until the property in Goods passes to the Customer ( and provided Goods are still in existence and have not been resold } HHB shall be entitled to require the Customer to deliver up Goods to HHB upon demand and if the Customer fails to do so HHB is authorised by the Customer to enter onto any premises of the Customer or any third party where Goods are stored and repossess Goods . 8.4 The Customer shall not be entitled to pledge or in any way charge by way of security or otherwise Goods which remain the property of HHB but if the Customer purports to do so Goods shall be returned immediately to HHB . 8.5 The customer's right to possession of Goods which remain the property of HHB shall forthwith terminate if the Customer being an individual commits an available act of bankruptcy or being a company does anything or fails to do anything which would entitle a receiver liquidator or administrative receiver to take possession of any assets of the Customer or which would entitle any person to petition to wind up the Customer . 8.6 If the Customer has not received the proceeds of any sale of Goods admixed with others the property in which has not passed to the Customer within seven days the Customer will if called upon by HHB so to do assign to HHB all rights against the person or persons to whom the Customer has supplied Goods and shall indemnify and keep indemnified HHB against all costs and expenses incurred by HHB in enforcing such rights in such manner as HHB shall deem fit . 9 ACCEPTANCE The Customer shall inspect Goods within three days of collection of Goods or of delivery if arranged by HHB and shall within such period notify HHB of any defects or shortages in writing . If the Customer fails to give such notice Goods shall be deemed for all purposes to be in accordance with this Contract and the Customer shall be bound to pay for the same in full . 10 WARRANTY 10.1 Subject to the succeeding provisions of this clause 10 HHB warrants that Goods will correspond with their specification upon delivery and will be free from defects in material and workmanship for such period and subject to such conditions as are specified by the manufacturer of Goods whether in documents accompanying Goods or otherwise . 10.2 The above warranty is given by HHB subject to the following conditions : - 10.2.1 HHB shall have no liability in respect of any defects in Goods arising from any drawing specification or design supplied by the Customer . 10.2.2 HHB shall have no liability for fitness or suitability for purpose . 10.2.3 HHB shall have no liability in respect of any defect arising from fair wear and tear wilful damage negligence abnormal working conditions excessive use failure to follow manufacturer's instructions misuse alteration or repair without the manufacturer's approval . 10.2.4 HHB shall have no liability in respect to Goods if the total price for Goods has not been paid by the due date for payment or any money shall be due from the Customer to HHB under any other Contract . 10.2.5 HHB's liability shall not exceed such sums as it is able to recover from the manufacturer of Goods having used reasonable endeavours so to do . 10.3 Subject as expressly provided by this clause 10 all warranties conditions and other implied terms are excluded to the full extent permitted by law . The statutory rights of consumers ( within the meaning of the Unfair Contracts Terms Act 1977 ) are not affected by these Conditions . 10.4 Any claim relating to defects in Goods by the Customer must be notified in writing to HHB within seven days of the date on which such defect is or ought to have been apparent . 10.5 HHB in its own discretion shall be entitled in full satisfaction of any claim by the Customer to replace Goods free of charge or by refund of the price paid but HHB shall have no further liability to the Customer and without prejudice thereto except in the case of death or personal in jury caused by HHB's negligence HHB shall have no liability to the Customer for any consequential loss or damage ( whether for loss of profit or otherwise ) costs expenses or other claims for consequential compensation whether or not caused by HHB's negligence or that of its employees or agents which arise out of or in connection with the supply of Goods or their resale or use except as expressly provided by these Conditions . 10.6.1 ( Subject always to the provisions of Clause 6.3 as to delivery ) HHB shall have no liability to the Customer or be in breach of contract by reason of any delay in performing or failing to perform its obligations to the Customer hereunder if the delay was caused by reason of any cause beyond HHB's reasonable control which shall include ( without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing ) force majeure terrorism acts or omissions of any statutory of local authority import or export restrictions failure by any third party against whom HHB is unable to make recovery ( to the extent of such inability ) and changes in law or regulations applying to Goods or to HHB . 10.6.2 In the event of any such delay or failure HHB may at its discretion cancel or rescind the Contract without liability by written notice to the Customer . 11 CANCELLATION 11.1 In the event of any order being cancelled by the Customer prior to delivery of Goods in whole or in part HHB reserves the right to invoice or otherwise hold the Customer liable for any losses incurred including ( without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing ) loss of profit charges for carriage freight insurance and handling charges . 11.2 Without prejudice to the generality of Clause 11.1 in the event of an order being cancelled in whole or in part HHB shall be entitled to charge the Customer a handling charge equal to fifteen per cent of the total price of Goods not delivered . 11.3 If the Customer shall make default in any payment or commit any breach of any other obligation to HHB under a Contract or under any other contract with HHB or compound with or execute an assignment with its creditors or ( being an individual ) commit any act of bankruptcy or have a petition or receiving order in bankruptcy presented or made or ( being a company ) make any resolution to wind-up or suffer a receiver administrative receiver or manager of the whole or any part of its assets or business to be appointed or have a petition for its winding-up presented HHB shall be entitled without prejudice to any other remedies or claims to cancel any orders of the Customer in whole or in part and stop any Goods in transit to the Customer . 12 CONFIDENTIALITY 12.1 The Customer shall not ( and shall procure that its employees and agents shall not ) without prior written consent from an authorised employee of HHB disclose to any third party any information or documentation or data on any other media of a confidential nature the property of HHB save any such previously in the public domain . 12.2 The Customer shall not copy or reproduce any drawings or specifications or other written material supplied by HHB in connection with Goods . 12.3 The Customer shall hold HHB harmless in respect of any breach by the Customer or any third party who purchases or hires Goods from the Customer of any copyright or other intellectual property rights licensed to HHB or as is provided with Goods . 13 EXPORT SALES 13.1 The Customer warrants to HHB that it is entitled to import the Goods to the country or territory of its direction without licence or other authority and without imposing any obligation or liability upon HHB . 13.2 The Customer shall be solely responsible for complying with any legislation or regulations governing the importation of Goods to the country or territory of its direction and the transit thereto and for payment of any duties taxes or other impositions thereon . 13.3 If export licences from England are required or import licences to the country or territory of the Customer's direction or the transit thereto are required the Customer shall be responsible for obtaining the same with such assistance from HHB as it may reasonably require subject to paying such reasonable charges as HHB may require for time expended and any other costs and disbursements incurred . 14 MISCELLANEOUS 14.1 No failure or delay by either party in exercising any remedy right power or privilege under or in relation to a Contract shall operate as a waiver of the same nor shall any single or partial exercise of any remedy right power or privilege preclude any further exercise of the same or the exercise of any other right power or privilege . 14.2 These Conditions supersede all prior agreements and arrangements between the parties relating to the sale of Goods by HHB and all such agreements and arrangements are hereby terminated without prejudice to any rights which may have accrued to either party . 14.3 Any notice to be given under these Conditions shall if served on a company be addressed to its registered office if in England or at the option of the server at its principal place of business if different or such other address as shall have been notified by one party to the other Any Customer whose has no registered office or place of business in England shall nominate to HHB in writing an address for service in England . 14.4 If any provision of these Conditions is held by any competent authority to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of these Conditions shall not thereby be prejudiced . 15 JURISDICTION 15.1 These conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of England . 15.2 The parties irrevocably submit for the benefit of HHB to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of England and Wales and in respect of any claim dispute or difference arising out of or in connection with these conditions or any Contract . HHB Communications Ltd. 73-75 Scrubs Lane , London NWI0 6QU . Tel : 020 8962 5000 Fax : 020 8962 5050 VAT Registration Number 527 7481 21 June 2001"	Legal
1591	"Fitting - Sizes - Models : PHN 's come in two models . The smaller UltraLight , and the larger FullSize . There are no "" sizes "" such as one finds when trying on shoes . The type of hat is the determining factor , not the size of the head . Nets are fitted to drape nicely , and protect a full sized adult . When compared to the different size-shape of net required to cover a full size hat vs a baseball cap , the size differential of nets for smaller vs larger people is quite minimal . Many hundreds of PHN's are out there , and so far we 've yet to run across the individual with a noggin so small or so huge that net size is an issue . A 6 ' man has roughly the same size head as a 5 ' woman . Thankfully , our heads are not like her size 6 vs his size 15 feet , and so we enjoy a confidence in PHN's appropriate fit that 's well proven over time . the UltraLight - This is our original head net . Fits trimly over BaseBall caps , or brimmed hats with up to 2-1 / 4 "" brims , such as Boonie Hats , or the Tilley LT5 series , UL's fit correctly over hats measuring under 11 x 13 "" if laid out flat . Substantial effort shows nought to be gained from optimizing a "" BaseBall Cap Only "" fitment . To reduce blousing and enhance edge sealing , the UL features the Viper Cut curved neckline . While UL's will offer good protection worn over the Sunday Afrernoons Adventure Hat , most people prefer the Full Size for it 's roomier feel with this particular hat . While all our nets use the same netting material , UL's feature the lightest elastic and construction UL's upper elastic is easily adjustable , as UL's now feature an upper cord lock device . In the event that this tiny piece is found annoying to sleep on , it 's removal is effortless the FullSize - Fits correctly with about a 3 "" average brim width , or hats measuring up to 13 x 14 "" laid out flat . This would be the majority of Sun Hats , Filson Hats , Outdoor Reaseach hats along the format of their Seattle Sombrero , the Akubra Riverina , and modestly brimmed Cowboy Hats . Also fits nicely over Tilley hats of the LT6 and LT8 varieties . The FS is not terribly obnoxious fitted over smaller hats . If you did not know we made the nicely trim UL model , you 'd be quite content . If one is on the fence ( hat wise ... ) over a UL vs FS fitting , go with the FS . the Sun Hat - XL - I stopped after making several dozens of them . The reality of the situation is that the edge of the brim of huge hats is simply too far away . The result is that when the head is not tilted , this leaves excess yardage of material billowing about ** . The effect can best be summarized as ... "" not good "" . In a perfect world , if there are enough bugs to warrant a headnet , people would opt for a workable hat . ** - a 15 "" dia hat requires a pattern well over FOUR feet wide ! Buying as a Gift , or for a Group ? - Unless your target is a confirmed baseball cap sort of person , your safest bet may be the Full Size , as this will cover the Vast Majority of users , and in the event that it is "" too big "" , there is no tragic loss of style . Protection will be excellent in either case . Returns or exchanges without drama . Toss the offending item back in it 's package , include a note , and mail it to the return address ... Done . If in a time crunch , please drop me a note and we 'll asap pre-handle the issue ."	Promotion
683	WELCOME TO MOONLIGHT GUEST HOUSE ! Moonlight Guest House is an beautiful character building located close to the heart of Falmouth in Cornwall . Moonlight has been carefully renovated to a very high standard of accommodation , providing six ample rooms all with en-suite and all important luxuries . Thank you for visiting our website , please use the links above , and the features below to find out a little more about us . ALL of our profits are donated to charities that help people , animals and the environment .	Promotion
1176	At Guardian Jobs , we 're changing the way our customers reach and engage with their audience . As one of the UK's most trusted and premium recruitment brands , we have built strong relationships with organisations of all shapes and sizes , across virtually all sectors – in particular with charities , government , the arts and all sorts of commercial enterprises . But we are n't stopping there . Our future strategy of boosting job applications by developing innovative products , based on our razor sharp insights , will allow us to grow our client base whilst being ever more effective in targeting active and passive job seekers . Would you like to be part of our exciting journey ? We are looking for an advertising sales executive to join our Guardian Jobs team . In this role you 'll be tasked with growing advertising revenue for a particular sector . You 'll do this by partnering with new and existing clients , to create and sell just the right recruitment advertising solutions to fulfil their unique needs . You 'll use your entrepreneurial zeal and creative flair to explore ideas for fresh advertising products and unusual campaigns , across all our platforms , and utilising the industry's latest technologies . This is a fast-paced , demanding role in which you 'll usually liaise with clients by telephone , but you 'll sometimes pitch your ideas face-to-face , too . We will give you all the support and training you need to help you hit your revenue targets – not just when you first join , but on an ongoing basis as your progress in your career with us . Not to mention up to 40 % commission on top of your salary and a generous company benefits package . In return , we 'll expect you to be a self-starter with the drive , commercial acumen and self-discipline to consistently hit your sales targets and steadily grow your sector's revenues . You 'll be buzzing with enthusiasm , itching to pick up the phone for the next sales call , and bursting with innovative ideas . You 'll have superb written and verbal communication skills , and you 'll be a passionate advocate of the Guardian brand and what it represents . You do n't necessarily need much previous experience in sales – attitude and aptitude is key . If you feel like this advert is speaking directly to you – do n't delay . We 'd love to hear from you . To apply , please attach your latest CV and a cover which tells us why you want the role and why you think you 're a great fit . Do n't forget to include your relevant sales experience or transferable skills !	Promotion
983	"Drivers taking short cuts through Uttoxeter's shopper friendly High Street could find themselves picking up more than a pre-Christmas bargain . Police are planning a major blitz on drivers ignoring a day-time traffic ban and will be issuing fixed penalty fines . "" We have received numerous complaints about vehicle drivers simply ignoring the traffic ban and putting shoppers in danger , "" said PC Clare Harding one of the town's Community Beat Officers . "" Drivers will be risking a £ 30 fine if they flout the regulations which are deigned to make Uttoxeter's High Street a safe place for shoppers . "" Police plan to step up their activity throughout November as the town gears up for the festive season . The town is traffic free between 8am and 6pm ."	News
949	"Here is a stage by stage help guide to assist you . 1 . Selecting your computer select your computer requirements from the drop down menus , if you are unsure of what you need then please see the section "" Help ordering your PC "" 2 . Shopping Cart . Having selected your computers requirements click on the "" add to cart "" button at the bottom right hand side of the page . 3 . My Basket You will now see a page entitled "" My basket "" your computer will now be shown with all your requirements listed . From this page you can continue to shop using the "" continue "" button or go to "" checkout "" 4 Log-in page . As a new customer you will have to log in . This information is so that we know where to send your order and can contact you in the unlikely event that we have a problem . 5 . My account information Please fill in all sections as all is necessary to successfully complete your order . you will be asked to create a password so that you can access your account in the future without having to complete this form again . Please see our privacy policy for more details about this information . 6 . Delivery Information T his page confirms your address and allows you to alter any details . You may also add comments about the delivery . 7 . Payment Information This page confirms your address and asks you to choose the payment method . If you have a voucher please type in the number into the box provided . You can also add any further comments about your order . 8 . Order confirmation This page confirms all the details you have provided . Please read carefully to avoid mistakes later . If you have chosen to pay by credit or debit card you will now be transferred to the HSBC secure payments site . All the details of your order will have automatically been transferred with you . 9 . HSBC Secure payments This site will guide you through the credit card payment process smoothly and securely before transferring you back to J C Micro . 10 . Contact us If you have any problems with this process , or would lie to pay for your order over the telephone please contact us on 01636 684259 and we will be only too pleased to assist ."	Instruction
404	T5 : The Excavation Archaeological excavation began at T5 in April 2002 , with the construction work on the Terminal itself beginning in December 2002 ; the terminal is due to open in spring 2008 . The site is the largest ever excavated in Britain . It has also been innovative in the way that the archaeology has run alongside major construction work by BAA and in the way that interpretation of finds has taken place on site . No single archaeological unit had enough staff to tackle the project alone . Instead , two long-established practices , Oxford Archaeology and Wessex Archaeology , formed a joint venture called Framework Archaeology to work at T5 and all other BAA airports . The excavation was a major challenge to the staff , who worked amid the noise and fumes of the world's busiest international airport . The project was unique in the way that it integrated the archaeological and the commercial . Framework's staff spent seven years designing and planning the project and working in the Heathrow area . The result was a focussed way of carrying out archaeology which allowed the excavators to know which areas were important and so avoid wasting time and money . BAA encouraged the best archaeology possible . They hired archaeological consultant Gill Andrews and Professor John Barrett , from Sheffield University , who , together with Framework Archaeology , developed a unique working method at T5 . By analysing and recording finds on site during excavation , rather than waiting until the end as is usual , staff were able to interpret their findings as they were made as well as ensuring that their work followed the most interesting and important directions . The excavation was rare in having computer terminals onsite and its own post-excavation department . The excavation suggested that people first began to create fields owned individually , as opposed to farming communally on open land , as early as 2 , 000BC , some five hundred years earlier than has been thought . Some of the Bronze Age field boundaries remained in use until the airport was built in the 20th century . The excavation : revealed objects including the only wooden bowl found dating to the Middle Bronze Age ( 1 , 500BC-1 , 100BC ) ; one of only two wooden buckets from the same period ; and a log ladder leading down into a pit dug during the Middle Bronze Age containing a wooden axehaft and a Neolithic stone axe , itself 2,000 years old when it was placed there . Two beautiful Iron Age pottery cups were also found . shed new light on the development of farming during the Bronze Age . Farming began during the Neolithic - New Stone Age - period ( 4 , 000BC - 2 , 400BC ) when forests were gradually cleared and crops were planted and gathered communally . It had been thought that communal farming continued on open land until the Middle Bronze Age ( 1 , 500BC-1 , 100BC ) . However , at Terminal 5 , pollen found from hedges used as field boundaries showed that people here were creating fields with boundaries from around 2 , 000BC , during the Early Bronze Age , 500 years earlier than archaeologists have previously thought . revealed how the religious focus of people changed over the centuries . The excavation looked at the Stanwell Cursus , a four-kilometre ( 2 . 5 mile ) pathway about 20 metres wide and flanked by ditches , which was built as early as 3 , 800BC and cuts across the Terminal 5 site . The cursus was a pathway with religious significance which linked important sites . Archaeologists believe that processions took place of important members of tribes along the Stanwell Cursus and along several other shorter cursuses in the area . The excavation revealed that when the first field boundaries were created in the Early Bronze Age ( around 2 , 000BC - 1 , 500BC ) , they ran around the cursus and not across it , as a mark of respect for its religious significance . But during the Middle Bronze Age , from 1 , 500BC , field boundaries were created across the cursus itself , a sign that it was no longer venerated , and that people now had to live within a world defined by hedges and fields rather than communal living . At the same time , access to the local rivers for people's livestock was harder because it would mean driving them across others' land , so waterholes were dug instead . These then became the focus of religious rituals , with important objects such as pottery and wooden objects placed in them as a sign of their religious significance . These changes show how man changed the religious significance of sites according to how useful they were to early farming . charted the changes in the landscape made by man from 6 , 000BC . These included : pits where meat was cooked by hunter gatherers during the Mesolithic ( Middle Stone Age ) period , c6 , 000BC , when the landscape was heavily forested ; large cursuses created during the Neolithic era ( New Stone Age , 4 , 000BC-2 , 400BC ) ; fields and boundaries and the first small permanent settlements in the Bronze Age ( 2 , 400BC-700BC ) ; and a small village in the Iron Age ( 700BC-AD43 ) and Roman times . The excavation reveals how the settlement died out at the end of the Roman era , but another settlement appeared in the mid-12th century . Some of the field boundaries created in the Bronze Age are still visible on maps and were still in use in the 20th century .	Information/Explanation
622	It still sounds quite broad though ? ' A lot of people have said that , but you know in doing it I did focus it quite a lot - I just took off a couple of the things that might have made it really difficult to listen to , you know , really really aggressive tracks engineered to sound horrible stuck in the middle of a nice album . ' What kind of person do you think it will appeal to ? ' I suppose people like me , but I do n't know what ... I was trying to make an album that I would buy , so just trying to put all the things that I like in it . You know , I think there must be a lot of people who are both into club stuff and more song-based stuff but not divided up . I think you get a lot of music that is either for playing in clubs or , what everyone goes on about as a chill-out , you know , post club music ... I do n't know , I guess I was just trying to put different elements of all sorts of things that I like into one album . Not that I suppose it 's got ... I 'm going around in circles actually ... but you know what I mean , do n't you ? I have n't consciously thought about who will be buying it , but I sort of do think that it 's a principle that if you make something that you yourself would buy then at least it 's going to be a coherent thing . You know , like ... ' I think we 're gonna need some faster tracks ' ... so you purposely do some faster tracks , or ... ' I think we need a track that sounds like ... that ' ... I think then you get into problems . I was making it because ... partly I 've always wanted to make an album where I 've played everything on it and I 've recorded it all on analogue 24 track , it 's just kind of ideas I 've had that I 've been thinking about for a long time that , in principle , I thought might work like , you know , not using a computer to control the sampler to playing all the samples manually just onto tape . It 's a nice idea and for years I 've been thinking it would be nice if we could get around to that , and finally I got the chance to try a lot of things out , you know the slinky reverb which we used loads in the mixing . Things like that track , Needles , we made all the drum sounds by just dropping a stylus onto the record and blowing on it and stuff . So there were lots of ideas like that I just wanted to ... ' Where do you get ideas like that ? ' I 've just always thought that when you first put the needle on the record that it 's just a really good bass drum sound , and so I 've always thought that one day I must sample that . ' Read the second half of the interview on Mr Dan's official site	Opinion/Argumentation
635	Hey , I have read a ton of different threads but I still ca n't get this to work . I want to be able to hook up my xbox to my pc using my 150MCE card . I am running windows media center 2005 . I read about the livepreview registry hack but I dont have that key in the registry . I also tried a couple different programs however I ca n't get any of them to pull a picture from the composite jacks on the back of my card . They only pull from the cable . Any suggestions ??	Opinion/Argumentation
922	"Slow , lad , slow ,  he said . "" They might round upon us in a twinkle of an eye if we was seen to hurry . "" Very deliberately , then , did we advance across the sand to where the doctor awaited us on the other side of the stockade , and as soon as we were within easy speaking distance Silver stopped . "" You 'll make a note of this here also , doctor , "" says he , "" and the boy 'll tell you how I saved his life , and were deposed for it too , and you may lay to that . Doctor , when a man 's steering as near the wind as me -- playing chuck-farthing with the last breath in his body , like--you would n't think it too much , mayhap , to give him one good word ? You 'll please bear in mind it 's not my life only now--it 's that boy 's into the bargain ; and you 'll speak me fair , doctor , and give me a bit o ' hope to go on , for the sake of mercy . "" Silver was a changed man once he was out there and had his back to his friends and the block house ; his cheeks seemed to have fallen in , his voice trembled ; never was a soul more dead in earnest . "" Why , John , you 're not afraid ? "" asked Dr. Livesey . "" Doctor , I 'm no coward ; no , not I--not SO much ! "" and he snapped his fingers . "" If I was I would n't say it . But I 'll own up fairly , I 've the shakes upon me for the gallows . You 're a good man and a true ; I never seen a better man ! And you 'll not forget what I done good , not any more than you 'll forget the bad , I know . And I step aside--see here--and leave you and Jim alone . And you 'll put that down for me too , for it 's a long stretch , is that ! "" So saying , he stepped back a little way , till he was out of earshot , and there sat down upon a tree-stump and began to whistle , spinning round now and again upon his seat so as to command a sight , sometimes of me and the doctor and sometimes of his unruly ruffians as they went to and fro in the sand between the fire--which they were busy rekindling--and the house , from which they brought forth pork and bread to make the breakfast . "" So , Jim , "" said the doctor sadly , "" here you are . As you have brewed , so shall you drink , my boy . Heaven knows , I can not find it in my heart to blame you , but this much I will say , be it kind or unkind : when Captain Smollett was well , you dared not have gone off ; and when he was ill and could n't help it , by George , it was downright cowardly ! "" I will own that I here began to weep . "" Doctor , "" I said , "" you might spare me . I have blamed myself enough ; my life's forfeit anyway , and I should have been dead by now if Silver had n't stood for me ; and doctor , believe this , I can die--and I dare say I deserve it--but what I fear is torture . If they come to torture me -- "" "" Jim , "" the doctor interrupted , and his voice was quite changed , "" Jim , I ca n't have this . Whip over , and we 'll run for it . "" "" Doctor , "" said I , "" I passed my word . "" "" I know , I know , "" he cried . "" We ca n't help that , Jim , now . I 'll take it on my shoulders , holus bolus , blame and shame , my boy ; but stay here , I can not let you . Jump ! One jump , and you 're out , and we 'll run for it like antelopes . "" "" No , "" I replied ; "" you know right well you would n't do the thing yourself--neither you nor squire nor captain ; and no more will I. Silver trusted me ; I passed my word , and back I go . But , doctor , you did not let me finish . If they come to torture me , I might let slip a word of where the ship is , for I got the ship , part by luck and part by risking , and she lies in North Inlet , on the southern beach , and just below high water . At half tide she must be high and dry . """	Prose/Lyrical
457	"We are just beginning to build our online collection . We have over 2 million images so if you ca n ' t find what you 're looking for , call us on 020 7805 5585 ILN Firsts Like any newspaper of today , a paper's popularity relied not only on the quality of its writing and the visual appeal of its illustrations , but also for its ability to report on forthcoming events before any other rival . As a weekly paper , it was even more important for The Illustrated London News to have its fair share of journalistic "" scoops "" ( one of the first was when they published the plans for the Great Exhibition before even Prince Albert had seen them ) . In addition , as a record of other types of "" firsts "" which today seem commonplace , such as the letter box , the ILN proves to be an invaluable source . Finally , the ILN was the first publication to push forward the boundaries of publishing techniques with the first colour plates ever produced in 1855 and over seventy years later , the novelty of the first 3-D anaglyph ."	News
53	"Part II , Chapter II "" And what if there has been a search already ? What if I find them in my room ? "" But here was his room . Nothing and no one in it . No one had peeped in . Even Nastasya had not touched it . But heavens ! how could he have left all those things in the hole ? He rushed to the corner , slipped his hand under the paper , pulled the things out and lined his pockets with them . There were eight articles in all : two little boxes with ear-rings or something of the sort , he hardly looked to see ; then four small leather cases . There was a chain , too , merely wrapped in newspaper and something else in newspaper , that looked like a decoration . ... He put them all in the different pockets of his overcoat , and the remaining pocket of his trousers , trying to conceal them as much as possible . He took the purse , too . Then he went out of his room , leaving the door open . He walked quickly and resolutely , and though he felt shattered , he had his senses about him . He was afraid of pursuit , he was afraid that in another half-hour , another quarter of an hour perhaps , instructions would be issued for his pursuit , and so at all costs , he must hide all traces before then . He must clear everything up while he still had some strength , some reasoning power left him .... Where was he to go ? That had long been settled : "" Fling them into the canal , and all traces hidden in the water , the thing would be at an end . "" So he had decided in the night of his delirium when several times he had had the impulse to get up and go away , to make haste , and get rid of it all . But to get rid of it , turned out to be a very difficult task . He wandered along the bank of the Ekaterininsky Canal for half an hour or more and looked several times at the steps running down to the water , but he could not think of carrying out his plan ; either rafts stood at the steps' edge , and women were washing clothes on them , or boats were moored there , and people were swarming everywhere . Moreover he could be seen and noticed from the banks on all sides ; it would look suspicious for a man to go down on purpose , stop , and throw something into the water . And what if the boxes were to float instead of sinking ? And of course they would . Even as it was , everyone he met seemed to stare and look round , as if they had nothing to do but to watch him . "" Why is it , or can it be my fancy ? "" he thought . At last the thought struck him that it might be better to go to the Neva . There were not so many people there , he would be less observed , and it would be more convenient in every way , above all it was further off . He wondered how he could have been wandering for a good half - hour , worried and anxious in this dangerous past without thinking of it before . And that half-hour he had lost over an irrational plan , simply because he had thought of it in delirium ! He had become extremely absent and forgetful and he was aware of it . He certainly must make haste . He walked towards the Neva along V – – Prospect , but on the way another idea struck him . "" Why to the Neva ? Would it not be better to go somewhere far off , to the Islands again , and there hide the things in some solitary place , in a wood or under a bush , and mark the spot perhaps ? "" And though he felt incapable of clear judgment , the idea seemed to him a sound one . But he was not destined to go there . For coming out of V – – Prospect towards the square , he saw on the left a passage leading between two blank walls to a courtyard . On the right hand , the blank unwhitewashed wall of a four-storied house stretched far into the court ; on the left , a wooden hoarding ran parallel with it for twenty paces into the court , and then turned sharply to the left . Here was a deserted fenced-off place where rubbish of different sorts was lying . At the end of the court , the corner of a low , smutty , stone shed , apparently part of some workshop , peeped from behind the hoarding . It was probably a carriage builder's or carpenter 's shed ; the whole place from the entrance was black with coal dust . Here would be the place to throw it , he thought . Not seeing anyone in the yard , he slipped in , and at once saw near the gate a sink , such as is often put in yards where there are many workmen or cab-drivers ; and on the hoarding above had been scribbled in chalk the time-honoured witticism , "" Standing here strictly forbidden . "" This was all the better , for there would be nothing suspicious about his going in . "" Here I could throw it all in a heap and get away ! "" Looking round once more , with his hand already in his pocket , he noticed against the outer wall , between the entrance and the sink , a big unhewn stone , weighing perhaps sixty pounds . The other side of the wall was a street . He could hear passers-by , always numerous in that part , but he could not be seen from the entrance , unless someone came in from the street , which might well happen indeed , so there was need of haste . He bent down over the stone , seized the top of it firmly in both hands , and using all his strength turned it over . Under the stone was a small hollow in the ground , and he immediately emptied his pocket into it . The purse lay at the top , and yet the hollow was not filled up . Then he seized the stone again and with one twist turned it back , so that it was in the same position again , though it stood a very little higher . But he scraped the earth about it and pressed it at the edges with his foot . Nothing could be noticed . Then he went out , and turned into the square . Again an intense , almost unbearable joy overwhelmed him for an instant , as it had in the police-office . "" I have buried my tracks ! And who , who can think of looking under that stone ? It has been lying there most likely ever since the house was built , and will lie as many years more . And if it were found , who would think of me ? It is all over ! No clue ! "" And he laughed . Yes , he remembered that he began laughing a thin , nervous noiseless laugh , and went on laughing all the time he was crossing the square . But when he reached the K – – Boulevard where two days before he had come upon that girl , his laughter suddenly ceased . Other ideas crept into his mind . He felt all at once that it would be loathsome to pass that seat on which after the girl was gone , he had sat and pondered , and that it would be hateful , too , to meet that whiskered policeman to whom he had given the twenty copecks : "" Damn him ! "" He walked , looking about him angrily and distractedly . All his ideas now seemed to be circling round some single point , and he felt that there really was such a point , and that now , now , he was left facing that point – and for the first time , indeed , during the last two months . "" Damn it all ! "" he thought suddenly , in a fit of ungovernable fury . "" If it has begun , then it has begun . Hang the new life ! Good Lord , how stupid it is ! ... And what lies I told to-day ! How despicably I fawned upon that wretched Ilya Petrovitch ! But that is all folly ! What do I care for them all , and my fawning upon them ! It is not that at all ! It is not that at all ! "" Suddenly he stopped ; a new utterly unexpected and exceedingly simple question perplexed and bitterly confounded him . "" If it all has really been done deliberately and not idiotically , if I really had a certain and definite object , how is it I did not even glance into the purse and do n't know what I had there , for which I have undergone these agonies , and have deliberately undertaken this base , filthy degrading business ? And here I wanted at once to throw into the water the purse together with all the things which I had not seen either .. . how 's that ? "" Yes , that was so , that was all so . Yet he had known it all before , and it was not a new question for him , even when it was decided in the night without hesitation and consideration , as though so it must be , as though it could not possibly be otherwise .... Yes , he had known it all , and understood it all ; it surely had all been settled even yesterday at the moment when he was bending over the box and pulling the jewel-cases out of it .... Yes , so it was . "" It is because I am very ill , "" he decided grimly at last , "" I have been worrying and fretting myself , and I do n't know what I am doing .... Yesterday and the day before yesterday and all this time I have been worrying myself .... I shall get well and I shall not worry .... But what if I do n't get well at all ? Good God , how sick I am of it all ! "" He walked on without resting . He had a terrible longing for some distraction , but he did not know what to do , what to attempt . A new overwhelming sensation was gaining more and more mastery over him every moment ; this was an immeasurable , almost physical , repulsion for everything surrounding him , an obstinate , malignant feeling of hatred . All who met him were loathsome to him – he loathed their faces , their movements , their gestures . If anyone had addressed him , he felt that he might have spat at him or bitten him .... He stopped suddenly , on coming out on the bank of the Little Neva , near the bridge to Vassilyevsky Ostrov . "" Why , he lives here , in that house , "" he thought , "" why , I have not come to Razumihin of my own accord ! Here it 's the same thing over again .... Very interesting to know , though ; have I come on purpose or have I simply walked here by chance ? Never mind , I said the day before yesterday that I would go and see him the day after ; well , and so I will ! Besides I really can not go further now . "" He went up to Razumihin's room on the fifth floor . The latter was at home in his garret , busily writing at the moment , and he opened the door himself . It was four months since they had seen each other . Razumihin was sitting in a ragged dressing-gown , with slippers on his bare feet , unkempt , unshaven and unwashed . His face showed surprise . "" Is it you ? "" he cried . He looked his comrade up and down ; then after a brief pause , he whistled . "" As hard up as all that ! Why , brother , you 've cut me out ! "" he added , looking at Raskolnikov's rags . "" Come sit down , you are tired , I 'll be bound . "" And when he had sunk down on the American leather sofa , which was in even worse condition than his own , Razumihin saw at once that his visitor was ill . "" Why , you are seriously ill , do you know that ? "" He began feeling his pulse . Raskolnikov pulled away his hand . "" Never mind , "" he said , "" I have come for this : I have no lessons .... I wanted , ... but I do n't really want lessons .... "" "" But I say ! You are delirious , you know ! "" Razumihin observed , watching him carefully . "" No , I am not . "" Raskolnikov got up from the sofa . As he had mounted the stairs to Razumihin's , he had not realised that he would be meeting his friend face to face . Now , in a flash , he knew , that what he was least of all disposed for at that moment was to be face to face with anyone in the wide world . His spleen rose within him . He almost choked with rage at himself as soon as he crossed Razumihin's threshold . "" Good-bye , "" he said abruptly , and walked to the door . "" Stop , stop ! You queer fish . "" "" I do n't want to , "" said the other , again pulling away his hand . "" Then why the devil have you come ? Are you mad , or what ? Why , this is ... almost insulting ! I wo n ' t let you go like that . "" "" Well , then , I came to you because I know no one but you who could help ... to begin ... because you are kinder than anyone – cleverer , I mean , and can judge ... and now I see that I want nothing . Do you hear ? Nothing at all ... no one's services ... no one's sympathy . I am by myself ... alone . Come , that 's enough . Leave me alone . "" "" Stay a minute , you sweep ! You are a perfect madman . As you like for all I care . I have no lessons , do you see , and I do n't care about that , but there 's a bookseller , Heruvimov – and he takes the place of a lesson . I would not exchange him for five lessons . He 's doing publishing of a kind , and issuing natural science manuals and what a circulation they have ! The very titles are worth the money ! You always maintained that I was a fool , but by Jove , my boy , there are greater fools than I am ! Now he is setting up for being advanced , not that he has an inkling of anything , but , of course , I encourage him . Here are two signatures of the German text – in my opinion , the crudest charlatanism ; it discusses the question , ' Is woman a human being ? ' And , of course , triumphantly proves that she is . Heruvimov is going to bring out this work as a contribution to the woman question ; I am translating it ; he will expand these two and a half signatures into six , we shall make up a gorgeous title half a page long and bring it out at half a rouble . It will do ! He pays me six roubles the signature , it works out to about fifteen roubles for the job , and I 've had six already in advance . When we have finished this , we are going to begin a translation about whales , and then some of the dullest scandals out of the second part of Les Confessions we have marked for translation ; somebody has told Heruvimov , that Rousseau was a kind of Radishchev . You may be sure I do n't contradict him , hang him ! Well , would you like to do the second signature of ' Is woman a human being ? ' If you would , take the German and pens and paper – all those are provided , and take three roubles ; for as I have had six roubles in advance on the whole thing , three roubles come to you for your share . And when you have finished the signature there will be another three roubles for you . And please do n't think I am doing you a service ; quite the contrary , as soon as you came in , I saw how you could help me ; to begin with , I am weak in spelling , and secondly , I am sometimes utterly adrift in German , so that I make it up as I go along for the most part . The only comfort is , that it 's bound to be a change for the better . Though who can tell , maybe it 's sometimes for the worse . Will you take it ? "" Raskolnikov took the German sheets in silence , took the three roubles and without a word went out . Razumihin gazed after him in astonishment . But when Raskolnikov was in the next street , he turned back , mounted the stairs to Razumihin's again and laying on the table the German article and the three roubles , went out again , still without uttering a word . "" Are you raving , or what ? "" Razumihin shouted , roused to fury at last . "" What farce is this ? You 'll drive me crazy too ... what did you come to see me for , damn you ? "" "" I do n't want ... translation , "" muttered Raskolnikov from the stairs . "" Then what the devil do you want ? "" shouted Razumihin from above . Raskolnikov continued descending the staircase in silence . "" Hey , there ! Where are you living ? "" No answer . "" Well , confound you then ! "" But Raskolnikov was already stepping into the street . On the Nikolaevsky Bridge he was roused to full consciousness again by an unpleasant incident . A coachman , after shouting at him two or three times , gave him a violent lash on the back with his whip , for having almost fallen under his horses' hoofs . The lash so infuriated him that he dashed away to the railing ( for some unknown reason he had been walking in the very middle of the bridge in the traffic ) . He angrily clenched and ground his teeth . He heard laughter , of course . "" Serves him right ! "" "" A pickpocket I dare say . "" "" Pretending to be drunk , for sure , and getting under the wheels on purpose ; and you have to answer for him . "" "" It 's a regular profession , that 's what it is . "" But while he stood at the railing , still looking angry and bewildered after the retreating carriage , and rubbing his back , he suddenly felt someone thrust money into his hand . He looked . It was an elderly woman in a kerchief and goatskin shoes , with a girl , probably her daughter wearing a hat , and carrying a green parasol . "" Take it , my good man , in Christ's name . "" He took it and they passed on . It was a piece of twenty copecks . From his dress and appearance they might well have taken him for a beggar asking alms in the streets , and the gift of the twenty copecks he doubtless owed to the blow , which made them feel sorry for him . He closed his hand on the twenty copecks , walked on for ten paces , and turned facing the Neva , looking towards the palace . The sky was without a cloud and the water was almost bright blue , which is so rare in the Neva . The cupola of the cathedral , which is seen at its best from the bridge about twenty paces from the chapel , glittered in the sunlight , and in the pure air every ornament on it could be clearly distinguished . The pain from the lash went off , and Raskolnikov forgot about it ; one uneasy and not quite definite idea occupied him now completely . He stood still , and gazed long and intently into the distance ; this spot was especially familiar to him . When he was attending the university , he had hundreds of times – generally on his way home – stood still on this spot , gazed at this truly magnificent spectacle and almost always marvelled at a vague and mysterious emotion it roused in him . It left him strangely cold ; this gorgeous picture was for him blank and lifeless . He wondered every time at his sombre and enigmatic impression and , mistrusting himself , put off finding the explanation of it . He vividly recalled those old doubts and perplexities , and it seemed to him that it was no mere chance that he recalled them now . It struck him as strange and grotesque , that he should have stopped at the same spot as before , as though he actually imagined he could think the same thoughts , be interested in the same theories and pictures that had interested him .. . so short a time ago . He felt it almost amusing , and yet it wrung his heart . Deep down , hidden far away out of sight all that seemed to him now – all his old past , his old thoughts , his old problems and theories , his old impressions and that picture and himself and all , all .... He felt as though he were flying upwards , and everything were vanishing from his sight . Making an unconscious movement with his hand , he suddenly became aware of the piece of money in his fist . He opened his hand , stared at the coin , and with a sweep of his arm flung it into the water ; then he turned and went home . It seemed to him , he had cut himself off from everyone and from everything at that moment . Evening was coming on when he reached home , so that he must have been walking about six hours . How and where he came back he did not remember . Undressing , and quivering like an overdriven horse , he lay down on the sofa , drew his greatcoat over him , and at once sank into oblivion .... It was dusk when he was waked up by a fearful scream . Good God , what a scream ! Such unnatural sounds , such howling , wailing , grinding , tears , blows and curses he had never heard . He could never have imagined such brutality , such frenzy . In terror he sat up in bed , almost swooning with agony . But the fighting , wailing and cursing grew louder and louder . And then to his intense amazement he caught the voice of his landlady . She was howling , shrieking and wailing , rapidly , hurriedly , incoherently , so that he could not make out what she was talking about ; she was beseeching , no doubt , not to be beaten , for she was being mercilessly beaten on the stairs . The voice of her assailant was so horrible from spite and rage that it was almost a croak ; but he , too , was saying something , and just as quickly and indistinctly , hurrying and spluttering . All at once Raskolnikov trembled ; he recognised the voice – it was the voice of Ilya Petrovitch . Ilya Petrovitch here and beating the landlady ! He is kicking her , banging her head against the steps – that 's clear , that can be told from the sounds , from the cries and the thuds . How is it , is the world topsy-turvy ? He could hear people running in crowds from all the storeys and all the staircases ; he heard voices , exclamations , knocking , doors banging . "" But why , why , and how could it be ? "" he repeated , thinking seriously that he had gone mad . But no , he heard too distinctly ! And they would come to him then next , "" for no doubt ... it 's all about that ... about yesterday .... Good God ! "" He would have fastened his door with the latch , but he could not lift his hand ... besides , it would be useless . Terror gripped his heart like ice , tortured him and numbed him .... But at last all this uproar , after continuing about ten minutes , began gradually to subside . The landlady was moaning and groaning ; Ilya Petrovitch was still uttering threats and curses .... But at last he , too , seemed to be silent , and now he could not be heard . "" Can he have gone away ? Good Lord ! "" Yes , and now the landlady is going too , still weeping and moaning ... and then her door slammed .... Now the crowd was going from the stairs to their rooms , exclaiming , disputing , calling to one another , raising their voices to a shout , dropping them to a whisper . There must have been numbers of them – almost all the inmates of the block . "" But , good God , how could it be ! And why , why had he come here ! "" Raskolnikov sank worn out on the sofa , but could not close his eyes . He lay for half an hour in such anguish , such an intolerable sensation of infinite terror as he had never experienced before . Suddenly a bright light flashed into his room . Nastasya came in with a candle and a plate of soup . Looking at him carefully and ascertaining that he was not asleep , she set the candle on the table and began to lay out what she had brought – bread , salt , a plate , a spoon . "" You 've eaten nothing since yesterday , I warrant . You 've been trudging about all day , and you 're shaking with fever . "" "" Nastasya ... what were they beating the landlady for ? "" She looked intently at him . "" Who beat the landlady ? "" "" Just now ... half an hour ago , Ilya Petrovitch , the assistant superintendent , on the stairs .... Why was he ill-treating her like that , and ... why was he here ? "" Nastasya scrutinised him , silent and frowning , and her scrutiny lasted a long time . He felt uneasy , even frightened at her searching eyes . "" Nastasya , why do n't you speak ? "" he said timidly at last in a weak voice . "" It 's the blood , "" she answered at last softly , as though speaking to herself . "" Blood ? What blood ? "" he muttered , growing white and turning towards the wall . Nastasya still looked at him without speaking . "" Nobody has been beating the landlady , "" she declared at last in a firm , resolute voice . He gazed at her , hardly able to breathe . "" I heard it myself .... I was not asleep ... I was sitting up , "" he said still more timidly . "" I listened a long while . The assistant superintendent came .... Everyone ran out on to the stairs from all the flats . "" "" No one has been here . That 's the blood crying in your ears . When there 's no outlet for it and it gets clotted , you begin fancying things .... Will you eat something ? "" He made no answer . Nastasya still stood over him , watching him . "" Give me something to drink ... Nastasya . "" She went downstairs and returned with a white earthenware jug of water . He remembered only swallowing one sip of the cold water and spilling some on his neck . Then followed forgetfulness ."	Prose/Lyrical
283	"This Part of this Act constitutes a scheme ( to be known as the "" debt arrangement scheme "" ) under which individuals may arrange for their debts to be paid under debt payment programmes . 2 Debt payment programmes ( 1 ) A debt payment programme is a programme which provides for the payment of money owed by a debtor . ( 2 ) The Scottish Ministers may , on an application by a debtor , approve any debt payment programme set out in the application . ( 3 ) Such an application shall be signed by the debtor and shall - ( a ) specify , to the best of the debtor's knowledge and belief , in relation to each debt which the debtor is proposing to be paid under the debt payment programme - ( i ) the amount outstanding ; ( ii ) the creditor to whom the debt is due ; and ( iii ) the period for which the debt has been due ; ( b ) set out the arrangements under which those debts are , in accordance with the provisions of the programme , to be paid , in particular specifying - ( i ) the amounts which the debtor proposes to pay under the programme ; ( ii ) the proposed regularity of those payments ; ( iii ) the manner in which those payments are to be made ; and ( iv ) the manner in which , and period over which , each of the debts included in the programme is to be paid ; ( c ) specify the name and address of the person ( the "" payments distributor "" ) who is to - ( i ) receive payments from the debtor ; and ( ii ) pay , on behalf of the debtor , the debts included in the programme , in accordance with the provisions of the programme ; and ( d ) contain such other information ( including information relating to the debtor's financial circumstances ) , and be in such form , as may be prescribed . ( 4 ) Such an application shall , subject to any contrary provision in regulations made under section 7 ( 1 ) below , incorporate the consent , indicated in the prescribed form , of all the debtor's creditors . ( 5 ) A person's name and address shall not be specified in an application for approval of a debt payment programme as a payments distributor unless that person has been approved by the Scottish Ministers as a person suitable to carry out the functions of a payments distributor . 3 Money advice ( 1 ) A debtor is not entitled to make an application for the approval , or the variation , of a debt payment programme unless the debtor has obtained the advice of a money adviser in relation to - ( a ) the debtor's financial circumstances ; ( b ) the effect of the proposed programme or , as the case may be , the proposed variation of the programme ; and ( c ) the preparation of the application . ( 2 ) Such an application shall - ( a ) contain a signed declaration by the money adviser who provided the advice referred to in subsection ( 1 ) above that such advice has been given ; and ( b ) specify the name and address of the money adviser . 4 Effect of debt payment programmes ( 1 ) Where a debt payment programme has been approved or varied , the debts specified in the application for the approval or , as the case may be , the variation shall be paid in accordance with the programme . ( 2 ) It is not competent - ( a ) to serve a charge for payment in respect of ; or ( b ) to commence or execute any diligence to enforce payment of , any debt owed by a debtor who has debts which are being paid under an approved debt payment programme . ( 3 ) A creditor is not entitled to found on any debt owed by such a debtor in presenting , or concurring in the presentation of , a petition for the sequestration of the debtor's estate . ( 4 ) There is to be disregarded , for the purposes of the exercise by a creditor of any rights to enforce a debt or remedies to like effect , any period during which the debtor's debts were subject to an approved debt payment programme . ( 5 ) The debts referred to in subsections ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) above are restricted to - ( a ) those to which the debtor's debt payment programme relates ; and ( b ) any other debts owed to creditors who have been given notice , in the prescribed form , of the approval of the debt payment programme . 5 Variation of debt payment programmes ( 1 ) The Scottish Ministers may , on an application by the debtor or by any creditor , approve the variation of a debt payment programme . ( 2 ) The Scottish Ministers may not consider an application for approval of a variation under subsection ( 1 ) above unless - ( a ) where the application is made by the debtor , a copy of the application has been given to each creditor who is owed a debt which is being paid under the debt payment programme ; or ( b ) where the application is made by a creditor , a copy of the application has been given to the debtor and to each other creditor who is owed such a debt . ( 3 ) Such an application may seek the variation of any condition which is attached to the approval of the programme or , as the case may be , a previous variation of the programme . ( 4 ) An application for the variation of a debt payment programme shall - ( a ) contain such information , and be in such form , as may be prescribed ; and ( b ) be signed by the debtor or , as the case may be , the creditor . 6 Deduction from earnings ( 1 ) Where an approved debt payment programme requires sums to be paid to the payments distributor by way of deduction of the debtor's earnings from employment , the debtor shall provide an instruction , in the prescribed form , to the person by whom the debtor is employed to make - ( a ) deductions from the debtor's earnings ; and ( b ) payments of the amounts deducted to the payments distributor , in accordance with the provisions of the debt payment programme . ( 2 ) It is the duty of the employer to comply with any instruction so provided . 7 Debt payment programmes : power to make further provision ( 1 ) The Scottish Ministers may , by regulations , make such further provision as they think fit in connection with - ( a ) applications for the approval , or for the variation , of debt payment programmes ; ( b ) the manner in which such programmes are to operate , including conditions with which debtors , creditors , payments distributors or money advisers must comply ; ( c ) the effect of such programmes ; and ( d ) the effect of the failure of an employer to comply with the duty under section 6 ( 2 ) above . ( 2 ) The regulations may , in particular , make provision about - ( a ) the class of person who may or may not make an application for the approval , or the variation , of a debt payment programme ; ( b ) the class of debt in respect of which such an application may or may not be made ; ( c ) the matters to which the Scottish Ministers are to have regard in determining whether to approve such an application ; [ a ] ( d ) the conditions which may or may not be attached to an approval of such an application ; ( e ) circumstances in which such an application will not be approved ; ( f ) appeals against determinations by the Scottish Ministers on such applications ; ( g ) circumstances in which the consent for the purposes of section 2 ( 4 ) above of a creditor or creditors generally may be dispensed with ; ( h ) circumstances in which a creditor may object to - ( i ) the dispensation of the creditor's consent ; or ( ii ) the approval of such an application , and the manner in which such objection may be made ; ( i ) the remitting of any such application in respect of which a creditor has made an objection to the sheriff for determination ; ( j ) the manner in which a debt payment programme may be varied ; ( k ) the priority in which debts are to be paid under a debt payment programme ; ( l ) the ingathering and sale or other disposal of assets and the distribution to creditors of amounts so realised ; ( m ) the period for which a debt payment programme is to remain in operation ; ( n ) circumstances in which , and the procedure under which , any such period can , in relation to a particular debt payment programme , be shortened or extended ; ( o ) circumstances in which a debt payment programme is to cease to have effect ; ( p ) subject to section 4 above , the manner in which a debt payment programme affects the rights or remedies of a creditor or other third party ; ( q ) circumstances in which creditors are to notify debtors of the right to make such an application and the effect of the failure of a creditor to provide that notice ; ( r ) the class of person who may act as a payments distributor ; ( s ) the class of person who may act as a money adviser ; ( t ) the functions of a payments distributor ; ( u ) the functions of a money adviser ; ( v ) the establishment and maintenance by the Scottish Ministers of a register of debt payment programmes and applications for the approval , and variation , of such programmes ; ( w ) the information which is to be kept in such a register ; ( x ) the manner in which that information is to be kept and in which it , or any part of it , is to be made available to the public ; and ( y ) the determination , and charging , by the Scottish Ministers of fees in respect of - ( i ) the consideration of applications for the approval , or the variation , of a debt payment programme ; and ( ii ) the provision of information recorded in the register of debt payment programmes . ( 3 ) The regulations may also - ( a ) make different provision in relation to such different types of debtors , debts or other matters as may be described by the Scottish Ministers ; ( b ) provide that such different provision is to have effect only for such period as is specified by the Scottish Ministers ; and ( c ) provide that , on the expiry of that period , the Scottish Ministers may determine that the different provision to which they relate is to - ( i ) continue to have effect without limit of time ; ( ii ) continue to have effect for such further period as may be determined by the Scottish Ministers ; or ( iii ) cease to have effect . ( 4 ) The regulations may also modify any enactment ( including this Act ) , instrument or document for the purposes of making such further provision as is mentioned in subsection ( 1 ) above . 8 Functions of the Scottish Ministers ( 1 ) The Scottish Ministers may by order provide that their functions under this Part of this Act may be performed on their behalf by such other person as may be specified in the order . ( 2 ) Such an order does not allow regulations under this Part of this Act or any further order under this section to be made by any person other than the Scottish Ministers . ( 3 ) Such an order may make different provision for different functions . 9 Interpretation of Part ( 1 ) In this Part of this Act - "" money adviser "" means any person who has been approved by the Scottish Ministers as a person who may give advice to a debtor for the purposes of section 3 ( 1 ) above ; and "" prescribed "" means prescribed by regulations made by the Scottish Ministers . ( 2 ) The references in this Part of this Act to a debtor are references to a debtor who is a natural person ."	Legal
119	"Use Google Realtime Search to find relevant real-time updates from online services including Twitter , FriendFeed , Facebook , MySpace , indenti . ca , TwitArmy , and Jaiku . Search for only this kind of content by visiting google . com / realtime . You can also search for real-time updates by clicking the Realtime link ( sometimes found under the "" More "" menu ) on the side of any search results page . In this Realtime view , you 'll see recent posts that are relevant to your search . Tweets and other short-form updates create an ongoing commentary that can provide valuable insights into what 's happened and how people have reacted . Here are a few cool features and options within the Realtime view : Top Links The Top Links section features the most cited links for your search , helping you find the most relevant content that was shared through these real-time updates . You might find content like a new video that 's gone viral or the latest news story that was commonly shared . Conversations Use the Full conversation option to see the back and forth dialog of a Twitter conversation . The Full conversation snippet will automatically appear next to tweets that have @ replies associated with them . Tweets are organized from oldest to newest and are indented so you can quickly see how the conversation developed . The Full conversation option is currently available only in certain languages . Replay Use Google to search and explore the archive of past Twitter content . By replaying tweets , you can explore any topic that people have discussed on Twitter . For example , see what people were saying about a certain news event , how opinions of a celebrity changed over time , or what event made your favorite bookstore so crowded last weekend . Once you 're in the Realtime view , make sure that the Latest option is selected in the side panel ( it will be selected by default ) . You 'll see a chart on the right side of the page that shows how the relative volume of tweets about your search have changed over time . Click any point in the chart to see a replay of what people were saying publicly on Twitter about a given topic at that given time . Note that we currently show this historical view only for Twitter content . Filter your real-time results -- Sort by date : When you search for real-time updates , you 'll see the Latest view by default . This option shows content ordered by date and time , so you 'll see the most recent updates listed first . If you want to see results ranked by their relevance to your search terms and not by date , click the Any time link in the left panel . Results in this view are ranked based on algorithms to determine the most relevant updates regardless of when they were written . -- Sort by images : If you want to see only results that include image thumbnails , click the Updates with images link in the left panel . -- Sort by location : Use geographic location to help find the most relevant real-time results . When available , the location is shown next to the timestamp for each update . This location can be the location set by the user in their profile or a location extracted from explicit latitude and longitude attached to an update . In the Realtime view , you can use the filtering option in the side panel to see results from Anywhere , Nearby , or a Custom location that you define . If you choose Nearby , you 'll see content that 's customized to your location . The geographic location filter is currently available only in certain languages ."	Instruction
935	"Mercury was very anxious to know in what estimation he was held by mankind ; so he disguised himself as a man and walked into a Sculptor's studio , where there were a number of statues finished and ready for sale . Seeing a statue of Jupiter among the rest , he inquired the price of it . "" A crown , "" said the Sculptor . "" Is that all ? "" said he , laughing ; "" and "" ( pointing to one of Juno ) "" how much is that one ? "" "" That , "" was the reply , "" is half a crown . "" "" And how much might you be wanting for that one over there , now ? "" he continued , pointing to a statue of himself . "" That one ? "" said the Sculptor ; "" Oh , I 'll throw him in for nothing if you 'll buy the other two . """	Prose/Lyrical
175	"Several years ago , here at TED , Peter Skillman introduced a design challenge called the marshmallow challenge . And the idea 's pretty simple . Teams of four have to build the tallest free-standing structure out of 20 sticks of spaghetti , one yard of tape , one yard of string and a marshmallow . The marshmallow has to be on top . And , though it seems really simple , it 's actually pretty hard , because it forces people to collaborate very quickly . And so I thought that this was an interesting idea , and I incorporated it into a design workshop . And it was a huge success . And since then , I 've conducted about 70 design workshops across the world with students and designers and architects , even the CTOs of the Fortune 50 , and there 's something about this exercise that reveals very deep lessons about the nature of collaboration , and I 'd like to share some of them with you . So , normally , most people begin by orienting themselves to the task . They talk about it , they figure out what it 's going to look like , they jockey for power , then they spend some time planning , organizing . They sketch and they lay out spaghetti They spend the majority of their time assembling the sticks into ever-growing structures and then , finally , just as they 're running out of time , someone takes out the marshmallow , and then they gingerly put it on top , and then they stand back , and Ta-da ! they admire their work . But what really happens , most of the time , is that the "" ta-da "" turns into an "" uh-oh , "" because the weight of the marshmallow causes the entire structure to buckle and to collapse . So there are a number of people who have a lot more "" uh-oh "" moments than others , and among the worst are recent graduates of business school . ( Laughter ) They lie , they cheat , they get distracted , and they produce really lame structures . And of course there are teams that have a lot more "" ta-da "" structures , and , among the best , are recent graduates of kindergarten . ( Laughter ) And it 's pretty amazing . As Peter tells us , not only do they produce the tallest structures , but they 're the most interesting structures of them all . So the question you want to ask is : How come ? Why ? What is it about them ? And Peter likes to say that , "" None of the kids spend any time trying to be CEO of Spaghetti Inc. "" Right . They do n't spend time jockeying for power . But there 's another reason as well . And the reason is that business students are trained to find the single right plan , right . And then they execute on it . And then what happens is , when they put the marshmallow on the top , they run out of time , and what happens ? It 's a crisis . Sound familiar ? Right . What kindergarteners do differently , is that they start with the marshmallow , and they build prototypes , successive prototypes , always keeping the marshmallow on top , so they have multiple times to fix ill built prototypes along the way . So designers recognize this type of collaboration as the essence of the iterative process . And with each version , kids get instant feedback about what works and what does n ' t work . So the capacity to play in prototype is really essential , but let 's look at how different teams perform . So the average for most people is around 20 inches , business schools students , about half of that , lawyers , a little better , but not much better than that , kindergarteners , better than most adults . Who does the very best ? Architects and engineers , thankfully . ( Laughter ) 39 inches is the tallest structure I 've seen . And why is it ? Because they understand triangles and self-re-enforcing geometrical patterns are the key to building stable structures . So CEOs , a little bit better than average . But here 's where it gets interesting . If you put you put an executive admin . on the team , they get significantly better . ( Laughter ) It 's incredible . You know , you look around , you go , "" Oh , that team 's going to win . "" You can just tell beforehand . And why is that ? Because they have special skills of facilitation . They manage the process , they understand the process . And any team who manages and pays a close attention to work will significantly improve the team's performance . Specialized skills and facilitation skills are the combination [ that ] leads to strong success . If you have 10 teams that typically perform , you 'll get maybe six or so that have standing structures . And I tried something interesting . I thought , let 's up the ante once . So I offered a 10,000 dollar prize of software to the winning team . So what do you think happened to these design students ? What was the result ? Here 's what happened . Not one team had a standing structure . If anyone had built , say , a one inch structure , they could have taken home the prize . So , is n't it interesting that high stakes have a strong impact . We did the exercise again with the same students . What do you think happened then ? So now they understand the value of prototyping . So the same team went from being the very worst to being among the very best . They produced the tallest structures in the least amount of time . So there 's deep lessons for us about the nature of incentives and success . So , you might ask : Why would anyone actually spend time writing a marshmallow challenge ? And the reason is , I help create digital tools and processes to help teams build cars and video games and visual effects . And what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify the hidden assumptions . Because , frankly , every project has its own marshmallow , does n ' t it . The challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , common stance to build the right prototype . And so , this is the value of the experience , of this so simple exercise . And those of you who are interested , may want to go to marshmallowchallenge . com . It 's a blog that you can look at how to build the marshmallows . There 's step-by-step instructions on this . There are crazy examples from around the world of how people tweak and adjust the system . There 's world records on this as well . And the fundamental lesson , I believe , is that design truly is a contact sport . It demands that we bring all of our senses to the task , and that we apply the very best of our thinking , our feeling and our doing to the challenge that we have at hand . And , sometimes , a little prototype of this experience is all that it takes to turn us from an "" uh-oh "" moment to a "" ta-da "" moment . And that can make a big difference . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
977	"Returning Image File Information When accessing formatted image data ( not contained in a binary file ) , there are a number of ways to get information about the data characteristics . The most flexible is the QUERY_IMAGE routine , which returns a structure that includes the number of image channels , pixel data type and palette information . If you need specific information from a formatted image file , you can use the QUERY * routine specifically designed for images of that format . Note You can also use the SIZE function to quickly return the size of an image array . See Using SIZE to Return Image Dimensions for details . Using the QUERY_IMAGE Info Structure Common image file formats contain standardized header information that can be queried . IDL provides the QUERY_IMAGE function to return valuable information about images stored in supported image file formats . For example , using the QUERY_IMAGE function , you can return information about the mineral . png file in the examples / data directory . First , access the file . Then use the QUERY_IMAGE function to return information about the file : file = FILEPATH ( ' mineral . png ' , $ SUBDIRECTORY = [ ' examples ' , ' data ' ] ) queryStatus = QUERY_IMAGE ( file , info ) To determine the success of the QUERY_IMAGE function , print the value of the query variable : PRINT , ' Status = ' , queryStatus IDL prints queryStatus = 1 If queryStatus is zero , the file can not be accessed with IDL . If queryStatus is one , the file can be accessed . Because the query was successful , the info variable is now an IDL structure containing image parameters . The tags associated with this structure variable are standard across image files . You can view the tags of this structure by setting the STRUCTURE keyword to the HELP command with the info variable as its argument : HELP , info , / STRUCTURE IDL displays the following text in the Output Log : ** Structure < 1407e70 > , 7 tags , length = 36 , refs = 1 : CHANNELS LONG 1 DIMENSIONS LONG Array [ 2 ] HAS_PALETTE INT 1 IMAGE_INDEX LONG 0 NUM_IMAGES LONG 1 PIXEL_TYPE INT 1 TYPE STRING ' PNG ' The structure tags provide the following information : Table 7-1 : Image Structure Tag Information Table 7-1 : Image Structure Tag Information Tag Description CHANNELS Provides the number of dimensions within the image array : 1 - two-dimensional array 3 - three-dimensional array Print the number of dimensions using : PRINT , ' Number of Channels : ' , info . channels For the mineral . png file , IDL prints : Number of Channels : 1 DIMENSIONS Contains image array information including the width and height . Print the image dimensions using : PRINT , ' Size : ' , info . dimensions For the mineral . png file , IDL prints : Size : 288 216 HAS_PALETTE Describes the presence or absence of a color palette : 1 ( True ) - the image has an associated palette 0 ( False ) - the image does not have an associated palette Print whether a palette is present or not using : PRINT , ' Is Palette Available ? : ' , info . has_palette For the mineral . png file , IDL prints : Is Palette Available ? : 1 IMAGE_INDEX Gives the zero-based index number of the current image . Print the index of the image using : PRINT , ' Image Index : ' , info . image_index For the mineral . png file , IDL prints : Image Index : 0 NUM_IMAGES Provides the number of images in the file . Print the number of images in the file using : PRINT , ' Number of Images : ' , info . num_images For the mineral . png file , IDL prints : Number of Images : 1 PIXEL_TYPE Provides the IDL type code for the image pixel data type : 0 - Undefined 1 - Byte 2 - Integer 3 - Longword integer 4 - Floating point 5 - Double-precision floating 6 - Complex floating 9 - Double-precision complex 12 - Unsigned Integer 13 - Unsigned Longword Integer 14 - 64-bit Integer 15 - Unsigned 64-bit Integer See "" IDL Type Codes and Names "" under the SIZE function for a complete list of type codes . Print the data type of the pixels in the image using : PRINT , ' Data Type : ' , info . pixel_type For the mineral . png file , IDL displays the following text in the Output Log : Data Type : 1 TYPE Identifies the image file format . Print the format of the file containing the image using : PRINT , ' File Type : ' + info . type For the mineral . png file , IDL prints : File Type : PNG From the contents of the info variable , it can be determined that the single image within the mineral . png file is an indexed image because it has only one channel ( is a two-dimensional array ) and it has a color palette . The image also has byte pixel data . Note When working with RBG images ( with a CHANNELS value of 3 ) it is important to determine the interleaving ( the arrangement of the red , green , and blue channels of data ) in order to properly display these image . See RGB Image Interleaving for an example that shows you how to determine the arrangement of these channels . Using Specific QUERY_ * Routines All of the QUERY_ * routines return a status , which determines if the file can be read using the corresponding READ_ routine . All of these routines also return the Info structure , ( described in the previous section ) , which reports image dimensions , number of samples per pixel , pixel type , palette info , and the number of images in the file . However , some of the QUERY_ * routines ( such as QUERY_MRSID and QUERY_TIFF ) return more detailed information particular to that specific image format . See Query Routines for a complete list of the available QUERY_ * routines ."	Instruction
1087	"Increases in Sex with Same-Sex Partners and Bisexual Identity Across Cohorts of Women ( but Not Men ) Paula England , Emma Mishel , Mónica L. Caudillo New York University Abstract : We use data from the 2002 – 2013 National Surveys of Family Growth to examine change across U.S. cohorts born between 1966 and 1995 in whether individuals have had sex with same-sex partners only , or with both men and women , and in whether they have a bisexual or gay identity . Adjusted for age , race / ethnicity , immigrant status , and mother's education , we find increases across cohorts in the proportion of women who report a bisexual identity , who report ever having had sex with both sexes , or who report having had sex with women only . By contrast , we find no cohort trend for men ; roughly 5 percent of men in every cohort have ever had sex with a man , and the proportion claiming a gay or bisexual attraction changed little . We speculate that this gender difference is rooted in a broader pattern of asymmetry in gender change in which departures from traditional gender norms are more acceptable for women than men . Keywords : sexualities ; gender ; bisexuality ; homosexuality ; cohorts is often recognized that norms about gender and sexuality are linked , such that one violates gender norms by identifying as gay or bisexual , or by having sex with a same-sex partner ( Pascoe 2007 ; England 2016 ) . What is less often recognized is a link between trends in the gender and sexuality systems . Gender change has been asymmetric , with women taking on traditionally male activities more than vice versa ( England 2010 ) . Consistent with this more general pattern , we will show that the proportion of women who have had sex with a same-sex partner or who identify as bisexual has increased , with no parallel change for men . Several recent papers , focused mostly on period change in the 1990s and early 2000s , note an upward trend in sex with same-sex partners ( Turner et al. 2005 ; Butler 2005 ; Twenge et al. 2016 ) . Our study takes a cohort rather than period perspective , examining change across birth cohorts born between 1966 and 1995 . We use data from the National Surveys of Family Growth ( NSFG ) collected between 2002 and 2013 . Separately for men and women , we examine change across cohorts in sex with same-sex partners and in gay or bisexual identities using models that adjust for respondents' age , race , ethnicity , immigrant status , and socioeconomic background ( measured with mother's education ) . We also examine whether trends have been significantly different along these dimensions . To foreshadow , we find substantial evidence of increases in women's sexual behavior with same-sex partners and in women's bisexual identity , but little change for men . We also find that trends differ little by race , ethnicity , immigration status , or socioeconomic background . I Citation : England , Paula , Emma Mishel , and Mónica L. Caudillo . 2016 . "" Increases in Sex with Same-Sex Partners and Bisexual Identity Across Cohorts of Women ( but Not Men ) . "" Sociological Science 3 : 951-970 . Received : August 2 , 2016 Accepted : September 25 , 2016 Published : November 7 , 2016 Editor ( s ) : Jesper Sørensen , Sarah Soule DOI : 10.15195 / v3 . a42 c 2016 The AuCopyright : thor ( s ) . This open-access article has been published under a Creative Commons Attribution License , which allows unrestricted use , distribution and reproduction , in any form , as long as the original author and source have been credited . c b T 951 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Past Research on Change in Sex with Same-Sex Partners Change Across Periods Several analyses show period changes in sex with same-sex partners . Using data from the General Social Survey ( GSS ) , Anderson and Stall ( 2002 ) found an increase from 1 to 2 percent to 3 to 4 percent between 1988 to 2000 in the percentage of men who had had sex with a man in the last year . They did not examine trends for women . Turner et al. ( 2005 ) also used GSS data ( 1988 – 2002 ) and found substantial increases in same-sex sexual behavior for women in the 1990s in whether women had sex with a same-sex partner in the last year , the last five years , or ever . For men , they found an increase only on the measure of same-sex activity in the last year , although it was much smaller than the increase for women ; they found no increase for men in same-sex activity in the last five years or ever . Twenge et al. ( 2016 ) used the GSS data from 1988 – 2014 and found that the proportion who had at least one same-sex partner since age 18 increased , from 3.6 to 8.7 percent for women and from 4.5 to 8.2 percent for men . Using 1988 – 2002 GSS data , augmented by the 1992 National Health and Social Life Survey , Butler ( 2005 ) found increases in the percentage of men and women who had sex with a same-sex partner in the previous year across the period , with a faster rate of change for women . A recent analysis by Copen et al. ( 2016 : 5 ) , using a subset of the NSFG data we use , found an increase between the 2006 – 2010 and the 2011 – 2013 NSFG surveys in the proportion of women who reported same-sex contact , but no change for men . Copen et al. ( 2016 ) is the only study of change in sexual orientation ; they found an increase in the proportion of both men and women who claimed a bisexual identity across the very short period from 2006 – 2010 to 2011 – 2013 . Taken as a whole , these studies , all of which focused on period trends centered on the 1990s or early 2000s , suggest increases for women in sex with same-sex partners , with mixed findings on whether there is no change or smaller changes for men . 1 Change Across Cohorts Research on cohort change in sexualities is sparse . Butler ( 2005 ) , whose main analysis focused on period change , provided information on change in having had a same-sex partner since age 18 across cohorts born between 1929 and 1982 , finding significant increases for women , but not for men . These analyses had no control for age or other compositional covariates . Likewise , Turner et al. ( 2005 ) , although focusing on period change , also examined cohort change in the proportions of men and women reporting any same-sex partner since age 18 , finding increases from 1.6 percent for the cohort of women born before 1920 to 6.9 percent for those born 1970 – 1984 , but no cohort change for men . This cohort analysis was from a model with no covariates , even for age , and thus could be a function of period change or compositional demographic change . Twenge et al. ( 2016 ) , discussed above , argued that the upward change in having had sex with a same-sex partner sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 952 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality identified in their GSS analysis is a period rather than a cohort effect . However , this conclusion is suspect , given that the techniques they used , proposed by Yang and Land ( 2013 ) , have been shown via simulation not to identify cohort effects in many cases where they exist ( Bell and Jones 2014 ) . Thus , in sum , there are no studies of change across cohorts in sexual orientation , and the studies examining cohort trends in sex with same sex partners are all flawed by lack of sociodemographic controls or an inappropriate method of separating cohort from period effects . We will focus on cohort change , controlling for age and other covariates , but make no claims about how much of the net cohort change we observe is a cohort or period "" effect . "" Limitations of Past Research and Our Contribution As mentioned above , past research suggests an increase in sex with same-sex partners , but all studies focused on period change , and any cohort analyses they provided were flawed . Thus , one of our contributions is to provide an analysis of cohort change sexual behavior and sexual orientation using models that control for age and other sociodemographic variables . None of the studies we reviewed distinguished between those who have sex with both men and women and those who have sex only with same-sex partners ( either ever , or in a given time period ) . 2 Thus , our second contribution is to make this distinction ; as we will show , the proportion of women who have had sex with both men and women , as well as the proportion having sex with women only , has increased . Past research is also limited in that most studies have focused only on behavior . We located no studies examining cohort trends in sexual orientation , so our third contribution is to do so . In sum , our contribution is to provide the first multivariate analysis of cohort change in having sex with same-sex partners only , having sex with same - and other-sex partners , and identifying as bisexual or gay . Data and Methods Data We pooled data from the 2002 , 2006 – 2010 , and 2011 – 2013 waves of the NSFG . In all of these waves , there was an Audio Computer-Assisted Self-Interview ( ACASI ) section administered in private that included questions about one's sexual orientation and whether one had same-sex sexual partners . Because this portion of the questionnaire was not face-to-face ( the interviewer let the respondent answer on the computer after he / she stepped away ) , answers about stigmatized behaviors and identities may have less reporting bias . Two recent studies that compared ACASI to standard methods disagree regarding whether it increases reporting of sexual behavior , attraction , or orientation that is not heteronormative . Villarroel et al. ( 2006 ) find that a higher proportion of respondents report sexual behavior with or attraction to same-sex partners with ACASI , whereas Dahlhamer et al. ( 2014 ) find no significant difference in reporting a nonheterosexual orientation with ACASI . 3 sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 953 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Variables Dependent variables : sexual behavior . To construct our behavioral dependent variables regarding sexual behavior , we used the questions on same-sex sexual partners in the ACASI section and the questions on sexual intercourse with other-sex partners in the main questionnaires to identify whether each respondent had ( 1 ) had sex with other - and same-sex partners or ( 2 ) had sex only with same-sex partners . ( Those not in the preceding categories of interest had had sex only with other-sex partners , or with no one . ) Respondents were asked questions that put them in these categories with respect to their sexual behavior ever and their behavior in the last 12 months . The specific questions we used from the ACASI section are as follows : "" Thinking about your entire life , how many [ same - ] sex partners have you had ? "" and "" Thinking about the last 12 months , how many [ same - ] sex partners have you had ? "" Women were asked these questions if they stated yes to a prior question about whether they had ever had "" sexual experience of any kind with another woman "" or yes to one of two prior questions about whether they had ever given or received oral sex to / from a woman . ( In 2002 only , the oral sex questions were not asked , so women were asked how many same-sex partners they have had , last year or ever , only if they answered yes to ever having had sexual experience with a woman . ) Men were asked their number of male sexual partners , ever or last year , only if they answered yes to either of two previous questions regarding whether they had ever had oral or anal sex with a man . Respondents who did not get asked the questions about number of same-sex partners because of their negative responses to the prior questions were assumed to have had no same-sex partners . To measure other-sex sexual activity , we relied on the NSFG official recodes for number of other-sex sexual partners with whom respondents had intercourse ever , and in the last 12 months , based on information provided in face-to-face interviews using the survey's main questionnaires . Using the combination of these variables allowed us to ascertain whether each respondent had ever had sex with at least one man and woman , or only with one or more women , or only with one or more men . This was our main behavioral dependent variable . In a supplementary analysis , we also used these measures of behavior for the last year . One potential problem in comparing women's and men's levels of sex with same-sex partners is that the different screening questions used to path men and women into questions about same-sex partnerships appear at first glance to have created a higher bar for men than for women to be seen as having had a same-sex partner . That is , men were n't asked how many male sexual partners they had had ( and thus were assumed to have had none ) unless they said they had oral or anal sex with a man , whereas women could be classified as having had sex with a woman if they said they had had any sexual experience with a woman , even if they did not report having had oral sex with a woman . Recent attention to the prevalence of women kissing women on dance floors and at parties ( Rupp et al. 2014 ; Hamilton 2007 ) raises the question of whether women reporting sexual experience with women are referring to experiences such as these or to more private sexual contact involving genitals . In analyses not shown , we ascertained that 91 percent of women of age 18 – 45 who said they had sex with a woman last year sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 954 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality ( regardless of whether they also said they had sex with a man ) also reported that they had ever had oral sex with a woman , as did 88 percent of ( the overlapping group of ) women who reported having sex with both men and women last year . 4 This suggests that the vast majority of those who say they have had a female sexual partner have had private sexual experiences with women beyond kissing . We are thus relatively unconcerned that the measures artifactually create a higher bar for men than women reporting on sexual behavior . Dependent variables : identity and attraction . To assess identity , we used a question that asked respondents whether they see themselves as "" heterosexual or straight , "" "" homosexual , gay , or lesbian , "" or "" bisexual . "" 5 Whether we are referring to men or women , we will use the term "" gay "" ( as opposed to "" lesbian "" ) for brevity and to facilitate comparing analyses across genders . One complication is that in the 2002 wave and part of the 2006 – 2010 wave ( through June 2008 ) , respondents were given the option of choosing "" something else "" to describe their sexual orientation ; we treated respondents who gave this response as in the reference category ( with heterosexuals ) . In supplemental analyses , we also use current attraction , a 5-point scale with categories for only attracted to females , mostly attracted to females , equally attracted to males and females , mostly attracted to males , and only attracted to males ( with gender order reversed for female respondents ) . We treated respondents who chose "" not sure "" as having a missing value , so they were eliminated from the analysis . We recoded the categories into heterosexual attraction ( only attracted to the other sex ) , bisexual attraction ( attracted mostly to either sex , or equally to both ) , and gay attraction ( attracted only to one's own sex ) . Independent variables . Our main independent variable of interest is respondent's birth cohort , represented by indicator variables . The categories containing enough respondents for analysis are 1966 – 1974 , 1975 – 1979 , 1980 – 1984 , and 1985 – 1995 ; we eliminated respondents born between 1957 and 1965 . We do not enter period into our main models , but we do employ detailed controls for age – indicator variables for each single year of age at survey . We will focus on cohort change but make no claims about cohort versus period "" effects "" given the difficulty of distinguishing them ( Bell and Jones 2014 ) . Control variables include indicator variables for the following race / ethnic groups : Non-Hispanic White ( hereafter white ) , Non-Hispanic Black ( hereafter black ) , Hispanic , and Other . We also control for immigration status ( = 1 if not born in the United States ) and an interaction for Hispanic X Immigrant that preliminary analysis showed to be needed . The other control we used was respondent's mother's education , represented by indicator variables for completing Less than High School , High School ( including those with some college but not a Bachelor's degree ) , or a Bachelor's degree or higher . These variables enter our main models to control for compositional change along these dimensions , removing its effects from our estimates of cohort change in sexual outcomes . In separate analyses , these variables are also used to examine whether the gender-specific trends in sexual outcomes that we identify vary along these dimensions . sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 955 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Table 1 : Means by gender . Women Men Same - and other-sex partners ever Only same-sex partners ever Only other-sex partners ever No partners 0.136 0.006 0.799 0.059 0.046 0.011 0.878 0.065 Bisexual Gay Heterosexual 0.041 0.013 0.932 0.017 0.02 0.949 Born 66 – 74 Born 75 – 79 Born 80 – 84 Born 85 – 95 0.357 0.201 0.221 0.221 0.359 0.202 0.212 0.227 White ( Non-Hispanic ) Black ( Non-Hispanic ) U.S. - born Hispanic Hispanic Immigrant Non-Hispanic Immigrant 0.625 0.141 0.087 0.082 0.07 0.625 0.121 0.091 0.097 0.068 Less Than High School HS / Some College BA or more 0.235 0.57 0.195 0.212 0.578 0.21 Sexual Behavior Sexual Orientation Cohort Race , Ethnicity , and Nativity Mother's Education Note : N of entire sample = 22,954 women and 17,452 men ; Ns for individual means vary according to missing values for the variable . Means on all variables , separately for men and women , are in Table 1 . All of our analyses incorporate survey weights corresponding to the relevant data collection years . Models Main models . We estimated a series of logistic regressions . Each regression is comprised of the cohort indicators as the primary independent variables , as well as all the control variables discussed above . Our goal is to get point estimates of the amount of change in each dependent variable between cohorts . The controls for age are intended to help us distinguish between cohort and life cycle differences , given that the cohorts differ in the age distribution of respondents in the survey . Because of the familiar age-period-cohort identification problem , we do not put the survey year ( period ) in our main models , and , thus , the cohort trends that we estimate may contain a combination of cohort and period effects . We control for race , ethnicity , sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 956 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality immigration status , and mother's education because these variables may affect sexual behavior or identity , and , thus , compositional change across birth cohorts might create cohort effects . For example , we will show a much lower rate of samesex sexual behavior by Hispanic immigrants than other groups ; given this , and the fact that the proportion of successive cohorts made up of Hispanic immigrants increased ( results not shown ) , failure to control for this compositional factor would , all else equal , lead to an underestimate of any increase ( or overestimate of any decrease ) in sex with same-sex partners . We seek to identify change across cohorts , which is not driven merely by compositional changes in our measured control variables , but which is driven by changing behavior within these groups ; the controls accomplish this . All models are estimated separately for men and women , allowing us to examine whether trends differ by gender . For each gender , we estimate logistic regression models that predict the following dependent variables : • Model 1 : Has had male and female sexual partners ever . • Model 2 : Has had only same-sex sexual partners ever . Each of these has a reference category that contains all categories other than the one listed . Thus , the reference categories for models 1 and 2 are overlapping , such that those who have had no sexual partners or only those of the other sex are in the reference category for both models , whereas those with both sexes as partners are in the reference category only for model 2 , and those with only same-sex partners are in the reference category only for model 1 . To examine cohort change in sexual orientation ( identity ) , we estimate two logistic regression models that predict dependent variables measuring the sexual orientation the respondent identifies with • Model 3 : Bisexual • Model 4 : Gay Each of these has a reference category that includes the other and also includes those who answered heterosexual ( and , in the years when it was an option , something else ) . Supplementary analyses . In an analysis discussed but for which full regression results are not presented , we estimated models parallel to 1 and 2 , regarding sex with same - and other sex partners , or same-sex partners only , but referring to partners in the last year ( rather than ever ) . In another supplementary analysis discussed but not displayed in our regression tables , we ran models parallel to 3 and 4 but taking bisexual and gay attraction ( as specified above ) as the dependent variables rather than identifying as bisexual or gay . We also undertake supplementary analyses to examine whether cohort trends we identify in any of our main models discussed above differ by race , ethnicity , or nativity . To do this , we estimate separate models for whites , blacks , U.S. - born Hispanics , Hispanic immigrants , and others . We then examine the significance of sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 957 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality differences between cohort coefficients in the models for whites and each other group . We discuss these findings , but they are not shown in our regression tables . Analogously , to see if those from different socioeconomic backgrounds experienced distinct trends , we estimate separate models for each group defined by mother's education and examine the significance of differences between cohort coefficients for those whose mothers had not completed high school and each other group . Predicted probabilities . From all of our models , we calculated predicted probabilities of observing the sexual behaviors , identities , or attractions of interest across cohorts . We used the "" Margins "" procedure in STATA , thus using an average marginal effects approach , which assumes the control variables to have the distribution observed for the whole ( male or female ) sample in each cohort . Sensitivity tests . These tests are described , along with their results , in the online supplement . None of them changed the substantive conclusions from our main analyses . Results : Changes in Women's Behavior and Identity Overall Trends Table 2 presents our main regression analyses for women , in which cohort change is estimated under controls , as detailed above . Model 1 reveals the cohort change in whether women have had sexual partners of both sexes ( ever ) , whereas model 2 does the same for having had only women as partners . Each successive cohort shows a significant elevation from the reference birth cohort ( 1966 – 74 ) , and increases are monotonic . Model 3 also shows significant monotonic upward trends in identifying as bisexual . Model 4 shows some increase in identifying as gay in the last two cohorts , but not enough to be statistically significant . We can see the levels of these behaviors and identities and the magnitude of change more clearly in Table 3 , containing predicted probabilities for each cohort , calculated from the models in Table 2 and some of our supplementary models on related outcomes . Table 3 shows that the predicted percent of women who had ever had sex with both men and women increased from 10.3 percent in the 1966 – 74 birth cohort to 19.7 percent in the 1985 – 95 cohort . The percentage of women who had ever had sex with only female partners , always very small , nonetheless rose significantly from 0.2 percent to 1.5 percent from the first to last birth cohort . Having had partners of both sexes , as well as having had only female partners in the last year , also increased , but the regressions ( not shown ) do n't show these increases to be significant . Bisexual identity increased significantly from 2.7 percent to 7.2 percent across the four cohorts , whereas bisexual attraction increased significantly from 13.8 percent to 19.5 percent . Gay identity , always much smaller than bisexual identity , did not rise significantly , whereas gay attraction , also much rarer than bisexual attraction , rose at marginal significance . In sum , across the four cohorts spanning those born from 1966 to 1995 , we find that having had sex with same-sex partners , bisexual identity , and attraction to sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 958 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Table 2 : Odds ratios from four logistic regressions predicting whether women ( 1 ) have had male and female sexual partners ( ever ) , ( 2 ) have had only female sexual partners ( ever ) , ( 3 ) identify as bisexual , and ( 4 ) identify as gay . 1 2 3 4 1.467 † ( 0 . 153 ) 1.733 † ( 0 . 229 ) 2.178 † ( 0 . 328 ) 4.012 † ( 1 . 860 ) 7.287 † ( 4 . 847 ) 8.760 † ( 5 . 805 ) 1.673 † ( 0 . 325 ) 1.949 † ( 0 . 452 ) 2.847 † ( 0 . 721 ) 0.944 ( 0 . 260 ) 1.12 ( 0 . 443 ) 1.436 ( 0 . 582 ) 0.692 † ( 0 . 078 ) 0.86 ( 0 . 077 ) 0.609 † ( 0 . 110 ) 0.451 † ( 0 . 085 ) 0.376 † ( 0 . 107 ) 2.168 ( 0 . 862 ) 1.38 ( 0 . 467 ) 1.666 ( 0 . 821 ) 1.533 ( 0 . 777 ) 0.134 ∗ ( 0 . 115 ) 0.738 ( 0 . 115 ) 0.8 ( 0 . 108 ) 1.117 ( 0 . 275 ) 0.824 ( 0 . 189 ) 0.349 † ( 0 . 125 ) 1.205 ( 0 . 366 ) 1.329 ( 0 . 296 ) 1.728 ( 0 . 560 ) 0.978 ( 0 . 328 ) 0.304 ∗ ( 0 . 148 ) 1.124 ( 0 . 090 ) 1.05 ( 0 . 117 ) 19,699 0.81 ( 0 . 294 ) 1.577 ( 0 . 577 ) 18,929 0.744 ∗ ( 0 . 106 ) 0.625 † ( 0 . 102 ) 19,577 0.671 ( 0 . 159 ) 1.009 ( 0 . 288 ) 19,577 Cohort ( ref : 66 – 74 ) Born 75 – 79 Born 80 – 84 Born 85 – 95 Race ( ref : White ) Hispanic Black Other Immigrant Hispanic x Immigrant Mother's Education ( ref : < HS ) HS / Some College BA or more N † p < 0.01 ; ∗ p < 0.05 , two-tailed test . Standard errors in parentheses . Indicator variables for ages 18 – 45 were also included in all models , but odds ratios not shown . same-sex partners grew significantly among women . The increases for behavior and identity can be seen in Figures 1 and 2 . Do Trends Differ by Race , Ethnicity , and Immigrant Status ? The same general picture of increases across cohorts in sexual experience with same-sex partners applies to all groups of women , as Figures 3 and 4 show . To ascertain this , for the four outcomes in Table 2 , we estimated separate regressions for the following groups : Non-Hispanic whites , Non-Hispanic blacks , U.S. - born Hispanics , and Hispanic immigrants . ( Regression results not shown . We do not discuss results for the residual category of other races or non-Hispanic immigrants . ) Trends in having ever had sex with women only are n't different between whites sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 959 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Table 3 : Women's predicted probabilities . Cohort 66 – 74 Sexual Behavior Same - and other-sex partners ever Only same-sex partners ever Same - and other-sex partners in past year1 Only same-sex partners in past year1 Sexual Orientation ( Identity ) Bisexual Gay Sexual Attraction Bisexual1 Gay1 Cohort 75 – 79 Cohort 80 – 84 Cohort 85 – 95 0.103 0.002 0.028 0.143 0.007 0.03 0.164 0.012 0.037 0.197 ∗ 0.015 ∗ 0.038 0.009 0.014 0.019 0.02 0.027 0.011 0.044 0.011 0.051 0.013 0.072 ∗ 0.016 0.138 0.004 0.16 0.006 0.175 0.011 0.195 ∗ 0.011 † Note : Predicted probabilities are calculated from logistic regression models in Table 2 , or not shown , using an average marginal effects approach to adjust for covariates . 1 These predicted probabilities are from logistic regression models not shown , the same as those in Table 2 , but changing the dependent variable . ∗ The last cohort is significantly higher than the first ; p < 0.05 , two-tailed test . † The last cohort is higher than the first ; 0.10 > p ≥ 0.05 , two-tailed test . and any other group besides U.S. - born Hispanics , whose rise was significantly faster . Trends in having ever had sex with both sexes are not significantly different between groups , except that increases for black women are much steeper than those for whites , starting at a ( non-significantly ) lower level in the first cohort and rising to a much higher level . The other difference is that the upward trend in bisexual identity is not seen for Hispanic immigrants . Predicted values show that Hispanics , especially Hispanic immigrants , have the lowest level of any of these behaviors or identities that indicate lack of exclusive heterosexuality . Overall , the conclusion is that all of these groups have upward trends in sex with same-sex partners that are the same as or steeper than those for non-Hispanic whites . Other than Hispanic immigrants , whose bisexual identity did not rise across cohorts , all had a rise in bisexual identity no different than that for white women . We also examined whether cohort trends vary by socioeconomic background , as measured by mother's education , finding almost no differences . Specifically , there were no significant differences between the cohort effects for these groups of women in having had sex with both sexes , having had sex only with women , or gay identity . The upward cohort effects on bisexual identity were larger for the group with the lowest mother's education , and one of these differences ( the elevation between the first and second of the four cohorts ) was significant . Overall , these monotonic upward cohort trends occurred among women of all socioeconomic backgrounds . Thus , it is certainly incorrect to say that the rise of nonheterosexual behaviors and identities is occurring primarily among socioeconomically privileged white women . sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 960 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Figure 1 : Women's and men's predicted probability of having had sex with same-and other-sex partners , by birth cohort . Rather , these trends largely transcend race and class , and , if anything , some are steeper in less privileged groups . Results for Men We find no upward trend across cohorts in whether men have had sex with only men , or with both men and women , ever or last year , and no upward trend in either gay or bisexual identity or attraction . The last cohort is never significantly above the first in any of the outcomes ( Tables 4 and 5 ) . On one of the four outcomes ( gay identity ) , the likelihood went down significantly between the first and second cohort . The overall lack of upward trend is not significantly different for groups of men from varying class backgrounds , defined by their mother's education ( results not shown ) . The lack of trend is true within race / ethnic and nativity groups as well for most outcomes ( race-specific regression results not shown , but see Figures 5 and sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 961 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Figure 2 : Women's and men's predicted probability of identifying as bisexual or gay , by birth cohort . 6 for trends in same-sex sexual behavior and gay or bisexual identity separately by race ) . 6 Our findings differ by gender , not only in the lack of an upward trend for men but also in the lower baseline levels of departures from exclusive heterosexuality for men , as can be seen in Figures 1 and 2 . As Table 5 , giving predicted probabilities , shows , in every cohort , between 3.5 percent and 4.8 percent of men have ever had both sexes as partners , and between 0.8 percent and 1.5 percent had had only same-sex partners , with no significant upward trend in either . Adding the two groups together , between 4 percent and 6 percent of men had ever had a same-sex partner in each cohort ( Table 5 ) ; by contrast , for women this was 10.5 percent in the first cohort and 21.2 percent in the last ( Table 3 ) . The percentage of men identifying as gay did not rise , estimated at 2.8 percent , 1.4 percent , 1.6 percent , and 1.7 percent , respectively , in the four cohorts ( Table 5 ) . Men's bisexual identity did rise from 1.3 percent to 2.4 percent ( Table 5 ) , but this is not significant ( Table 4 ) . Thus , the clear conclusion is that things changed for women , but not for men , and that by the most sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 962 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Figure 3 : Women's predicted probability of having had sex with same-and other-sex partners , by birth cohort and race . recent cohort , a much higher proportion of women than men had had sex with both sexes and claimed a bisexual identity . 7 Discussion and Conclusion We have shown a steady increase across cohorts in women's experience with samesex partners . The upward trend is present for women having had sex only with women , as well as having sex with both sexes . The proportion of women identifying as bisexual and reporting bisexual attraction has also grown . These upward trends are no less steep among blacks , U.S. - born Hispanics , and Hispanic immigrants than among whites ; indeed , for some outcomes , increases are steeper for minority groups . Hispanic immigrants differ from other groups of women in being less likely to identify as something other than heterosexual or to have had sex with a same-sex partner ; their levels are lower , but their upward trends are typically sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 963 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Figure 4 : Women's predicted probability of identifying as bisexual or gay , by birth cohort and race . not significantly different . The upward trends were also largely the same across socioeconomic background groups ( measured by mother's education ) . By contrast , there is no apparent trend in having only same-sex sexual partners , or partners of both sexes , for men . Nor is there an increase in the proportion of men who identify as gay or bisexual , or report such attraction . For the most part , these "" non-trends "" among men are not significantly different for whites than for blacks , U.S. - born Hispanics , or Hispanic immigrants , nor do they differ across groups of men defined by their mother's education . A limitation of our analysis is its inability to address how sexual experiences and identities that are not exclusively heterosexual evolve across the life cycle in recent cohorts among whom they are most common . The NSFG data include no one more than 45 years of age and contain only a limited range of cohorts . Because of this , for example , we were unable to see how many of the women in recent cohorts who had sex with both sexes in their early years continued to do so in their 30s , 40s , or later , or whether most of them transitioned to long-term relationships with either a man or a woman . We hope that future work will explore this . sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 964 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Table 4 : Odds ratios from four logistic regressions predicting whether men ( 1 ) have had male and female sexual partners ( ever ) , ( 2 ) have had only male sexual partners ( ever ) , ( 3 ) identify as bisexual , and ( 4 ) identify as gay . 1 2 3 4 0.711 ( 0 . 143 ) 0.942 ( 0 . 254 ) 0.895 ( 0 . 287 ) 0.683 ( 0 . 262 ) 0.908 ( 0 . 413 ) 1.398 ( 0 . 707 ) 0.9 ( 0 . 353 ) 1.584 ( 0 . 799 ) 1.828 ( 1 . 002 ) 0.508 ∗ ( 0 . 161 ) 0.554 ( 0 . 220 ) 0.625 ( 0 . 271 ) 1.103 ( 0 . 232 ) 0.825 ( 0 . 128 ) 0.444 † ( 0 . 111 ) 0.589 ( 0 . 208 ) 0.756 ( 0 . 326 ) 1.556 ( 0 . 530 ) 0.538 ∗ ( 0 . 158 ) 2.207 ∗ ( 0 . 857 ) 0.526 ( 0 . 240 ) 0.797 ( 0 . 551 ) 0.97 ( 0 . 290 ) 0.829 ( 0 . 187 ) 1.297 ( 0 . 391 ) 0.337 ∗ ( 0 . 150 ) 1.926 ( 1 . 148 ) 1.225 ( 0 . 341 ) 0.809 ( 0 . 148 ) 1.065 ( 0 . 364 ) 0.735 ( 0 . 229 ) 0.615 ( 0 . 294 ) 1.095 ( 0 . 188 ) 1.092 ( 0 . 258 ) 15,242 2.562 † ( 0 . 867 ) 1.78 ( 0 . 677 ) 15,238 0.686 ( 0 . 199 ) 0.842 ( 0 . 283 ) 15,201 1.541 ( 0 . 342 ) 1.092 ( 0 . 304 ) 15,201 Cohort ( ref : 66 – 74 ) Born 75 – 79 Born 80 – 84 Born 85 – 95 Race ( ref : White ) Hispanic Black Other Immigrant Hispanic x Immigrant Mother's Education ( ref : < HS ) HS / Some College BA or more N † p < 0.01 ; ∗ p < 0.05 , two-tailed test . Standard errors in parentheses . Indicator variables for ages 18 – 45 were also included in all models , but odds ratios not shown . Another limitation of our analysis is that our data are not rich enough to allow us to test various possible explanations of the cohort trends that we find . What we can offer is a speculative explanation that comports with the central fact shown by our analysis – that movement away from exclusively heterosexual behavior and identity has occurred for women , not men . Our speculation is that two factors facilitated such change across cohorts of women : the gender revolution and increased acceptances of gay rights . One prominent message of the gender revolution was that it is all right for women to do things only men could previously do . This increased the sense that it was permissible for women to engage in sex with women , even though doing so is still a violation of traditional gender conformity . Increased tolerance for gay rights furthered the sense of permission . sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 965 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Table 5 : Men's predicted probabilities . Cohort 66 – 74 Sexual Behavior Same - and other-sex partners ever Only same-sex partners ever Same - and other-sex partners in past year1 Only same-sex partners in past year1 Sexual Orientation ( Identity ) Bisexual Gay Sexual Attraction Bisexual1 Gay1 Cohort 75 – 79 Cohort 80 – 84 Cohort 85 – 95 0.048 0.011 0.007 0.035 0.008 0.009 0.046 0.01 0.01 0.043 0.015 0.014 0.02 0.011 0.016 0.024 0.013 0.028 0.012 0.014 0.021 0.016 0.024 0.017 0.061 0.019 0.045 0.007 0.053 0.009 0.058 0.018 Note : Predicted probabilities are calculated from logistic regression models in Table 4 , or not shown , using an average marginal effects approach to adjust for covariates . None of the predicted probabilities for the last cohort is significantly higher than for the first cohort . 1 These predicted probabilities are from logistic regression models not shown , the same as those in Table 4 , but changing the dependent variable . One might have thought that the same two factors , greater acceptance of gay rights and greater acceptance of nonconforming gender expressions , would have furthered acceptance of men's same-sex relationships in a parallel fashion . Although some feminists urged an acceptance of men doing things seen as feminine and a revalorization of traditionally feminine activities , this was certainly not the message the average person received from the gender revolution , which mostly involved women changing by moving into traditionally male positions and styles . Thus , we speculate that the continued devaluation of the feminine , combined with the fact that same-sex relationships were still seen as gender-bending , meant that engaging in them entailed losing status for men more than it did for women . Therefore , women interested in sex with same-sex partners felt freer than men to engage in such behavior and even to identify as bisexual . Of course , some men and women have always expressed their same-sex desire , despite stigma , and we do not want to understate the social costs women still experience for departures from exclusive heterosexuality ( Mishel 2016 ) . Nonetheless , our conjecture is that changes in norms about gender and heterosexism intersected in a way that provided more of an opening for women than men to have same-sex sexual relations . Whether or not this is the correct explanation , we have shown that women have exhibited much more increase than men across cohorts in reported sex with same-sex partners and in bisexual identity . sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 966 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Figure 5 : Men's predicted probability of having had sex with same-and other-sex partners , by birth cohort and race . Notes 1 We focus on the United States , but note that Johnson et al. ( 2001 : 1839 ) , studying the 1990s , found increases for British men and women in same-sex contact during the preceding five years . 2 Twenge et al. ( 2016 ) do state that most of the period change in having ever had a same-sex partner they document comes from individuals who have had sex with both sexes , but they do not show whether this is true for men and women separately . 3 Two qualitative studies in the United Kingdom also suggest , albeit indirectly , that ACASI would reduce under-reporting . Some gay or bisexual respondents reported to Betts ( 2009 ) that they would more likely reveal that they were not heterosexual if a survey used a method where neither the interviewer nor people in the household could hear or see their response . Similarly , some gay and bisexual participants in the study by Ellison and Gunstone ( 2009 ) said that they would reveal their sexual orientation in an online survey but would say they were heterosexual if asked by an interviewer . sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 967 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Figure 6 : Men's predicted probability of identifying as bisexual or gay , by birth cohort and race . 4 By contrast , only 71 percent of women 18 – 45 years of age who called themselves bisexual report ever having had oral sex with a woman . Indeed , Brown and England ( 2016 ) found that 23 percent of bisexual women have never had sex with a woman ( 16 percent have had only male partners and 7 percent no partners of either sex ) . 5 The exact words used for the "" gay "" option varied by sex and year . In 2002 , the option was "" homosexual "" for both men and women . In 2006 and later , the "" gay "" option for women was "" homosexual , gay , or lesbian , "" while for men it was "" homosexual or gay . "" 6 There are no significant differences in cohort coefficients between whites and blacks , U.S. - born Hispanics , or Hispanic immigrants on sex with other and same-sex partners ever , sex with only same-sex partners ever , or bisexual identity . The only exception for the outcomes in Table 4 is that U.S. - born Hispanics had a significant increase in identifying as gay the last compared to first cohort ; no such increase was present for whites , and the differences between the two group's coefficients for the last cohort are significantly different . 7 This conclusion could be challenged under some assumptions about under-reporting . We might think that , due to the greater stigma for men than women of gay sex , men would under-report more . If the gender gap in under-reporting remained constant , but sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 968 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality men always under-reported more , then we might be overestimating the gender gap in behavior and identities , but our estimates of trends in behavior , although not levels , should be accurate . Another possibility is that women's under-reporting decreased , but their behavior did not change ; this could possibly yield an increase for women but not men like the one we observe . However , we doubt that the more than doubling of having had a same-sex partner and of bisexual identity was all just a change in reporting . References Anderson , John E. , and R. Stall . 2002 . "" Increased Reporting of Male-to-Male Sexual Activity in a National Survey . "" Sexually Transmitted Diseases 29 : 643-46 . http://dx.doi.org/10. 1097 / 00007435-200211000-00005 Bell , Andrew , and Kelvyn Jones . 2014 . "" Another ' futile quest ' ? A simulation study of Yang and Land's hierarchical age-period-cohort model . "" Demographic Research 30 ( 11 ) : 333-60 . http://dx.doi.org/10.4054/DemRes.2014.30.11 Betts , Peter . 2009 . "" Developing Survey Questions on Sexual Identity : Cognitive / In-Depth Interviews . "" Office for National Statistics . Brown , Eliza , and Paula England . February 29 , 2016 . "" Sexual Orientation versus Behavior – Different for Men and Women ? "" Contexts , Retrieved July 2016 . ( https://contexts.org/ blog / sexual-orientation-versus-behavior-different-for-men-and-women / ) . Butler , Amy . 2005 . "" Gender Differences in the Prevalence of Same-Sex Sexual Partnering : 1988 – 2002 . "" Social Forces 84 ( 1 ) : 421-449 . http://dx.doi.org/10.1353/sof.2005.0092. Copen , Casey E. , Anjani Chandra , and Isa Marie Febo-Vazquez . 2016 . "" Sexual Behavior , Sexual Attraction , and Sexual Orientation Among Adults Ages 18 – 44 in the United States : Data from the 2011 – 2013 National Survey of Family Growth . "" National Health Statistics Reports ( 88 ) : 1-14 . Dahlhamer James M. , Adena M. Galinsky , Sarah S. Joestl , and Brian W. Ward . 2014 . "" Sexual Orientation in the 2013 National Health Interview Survey : A Quality Assessment . "" Vital Health Statistics 2 ( 169 ) . Ellison , Gavin , and Briony Gunstone . 2009 . "" Sexual Orientation Explored : A Study of Identity , Attraction , Behaviour and Attitudes in 2009 . "" YouGov , Equality and Human Rights Commission Research Report 35 . England , Paula . 2010 . "" The Gender Revolution : Uneven and Stalled . "" Gender & Society 24 ( 2 ) : 149-166 . http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0891243210361475 England , Paula . 2016 . "" Sometimes the Social Becomes Personal : Gender , Class , and Sexualities . "" American Sociological Review 81 ( 1 ) : 4-28 . http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/ 0003122415621900 Hamilton , Laura . 2007 . "" Trading on Heterosexuality : College Women's Gender Strategies and Homophobia . "" Gender & Society 21 : 145-72 . http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/ 0891243206297604 Johnson , Anne M. , Catherine H. Mercer , Bob Erens , Andrew J. Copas , Sally McManus , Kaye Wellings , and Kevin A. Fenton . 2001 . "" Sexual Behavior in Britain : Partnerships , Practices , and HIV Risk Behaviours . "" Lancet 358 : 1835-1842 . http://dx.doi.org/10. 1016 / S0140-6736 ( 01 ) 06883-0 Mishel , Emma . 2016 . "" Discrimination against Queer Women in the U.S. Workforce : A Résumé Audit Study . "" Socius : Sociological Research for a Dynamic World . 2 : 1-13 . http : // dx.doi.org / 10 . 1177 / 2378023115621316 sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 969 November 2016 | Volume 3 England , Mishel , and Caudillo Women's Increasing Bisexuality Pascoe , C.J. 2007 . Dude You 're a Fag : Masculinity and Sexuality in High School . Los Angeles , CA : University of California Press . Rupp , Leila , Verta Taylor , Shiri Regev-Messalem , Alison Fogarty , and Paula England . 2014 . "" Queer Women in the Hookup Scene : Beyond the Closet ? "" Gender & Society 28 : 212-235 . http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0891243213510782 Turner , Charles F. , Maria A. Villarroel , James R. Chromy , Elizabeth Eggleston , and Susan M. Rogers . 2005 . "" Trends : Same-Gender Sex among U.S. Adults : Trends across the Twentieth Century and during the 1990s . "" The Public Opinion Quarterly 69 ( 3 ) : 439-462 . http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/poq/nfi025 Twenge , Jean M. , Ryne A. Sherman , and Brooke E. Wells . 2016 . "" Changes in American Adults' Reported Same-Sex Sexual Experiences and Attitudes , 1973 – 2014 . "" Archives of Sexual Behavior http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10508-015-0540-2 Villarroel , Maria A. et al. 2006 . "" Same-Gender Sex in the United States Impact of T-Acasi on Prevalence Estimates . "" Public Opinion Quarterly 70 ( 2 ) : 166-96 . http://dx.doi.org/10. 1093 / poq / nfj023 Yang , Yang , and Kenneth C. Land . 2013 . Age-period-cohort Analysis : New Models , Methods , and Empirical Applications . Boca Raton , FL : CRC Press . http://dx.doi.org/10.1201/b13902 Acknowledgements : We are grateful to Gary Gates for helpful comments . Paula England : Department of Sociology , New York University . E-mail : Pengland@nyu.edu . Emma Mishel : Department of Sociology , New York University . E-mail : Emmamishel@nyu.edu . Mónica L. Caudillo : Department of Sociology , New York University . E-mail : Monica.Caudillo@nyu.edu . sociological science | www.sociologicalscience.com 970 November 2016 | Volume 3"	Information/Explanation
981	Scotland to increase checks on home schooling The authorities in Scotland are to trace all children who are being educated at home in order to carry out regular checks that they are receiving a balanced education . It is not known exactly how many children are home educated in the UK but estimates put the figure anywhere between 50,000 and 150,000 . If a child is withdrawn from state education , then local education authorities have a record of the child , but if the child has never attended school then they have no records . Judith Gillespie from the Scottish Parent Teacher Council said that the draft guidelines were designed to bring home education within the system . Speaking on BBC Radio Four's ' You and Yours ' , Ms Gillespie emphasised that the checks were in no way meant to be intrusive . ' It totally recognises the right of parents to educate the children at home , it totally recognises the fact that they do n't have to follow official curriculum , it totally recognises that parents do n't have to have formal teaching qualifications . ' ' What it does say is that all children should be monitored and they should be monitored to make sure that they are receiving a balanced and wide education so that you do n't get somebody who 's only teaching them about one particular topic for example . ' Ms Gillespie admitted that the home educators were ' very angry ' about the checks . Steve Stanford of the group ' Education Otherwise ' who teaches his own children at home has pointed out that the home educators receive no resources from the education system whatsoever and so he believes it is understandable that parents find the checks intrusive .	News
645	I enjoy analysing texts . I like attending the theatre . I like expressing my views . I like to read . I want to find out more about myself and my views . I want to explore writers' views and attitudes . I want to see how writers craft their work . I want to think about what matters to me and to others . I like expressing my viewpoint in essays , through group work and in presentations . I like to argue my opinions . I 'm interested in literature and the literary heritage . I like a challenge . I do n't want to be told what to think - I want to be original . I 'm good at writing essays and arguing my viewpoint . I 'm interested in the influences of time , place and context on the text and the writer . I can see where a writer is coming from . I like to make links between texts . I 'm interested in the way writing has changed over time .	Opinion/Argumentation
203	"[ 31 January 2002 ] Paragraphs Page History 2 - 41 4 Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan 42 - 48 11 C. Aggression by the Republic of Armenia against the Republic of Azerbaijan 49 - 53 11 Efforts to mediate a settlement to the conflict 54 - 58 12 The Republic of Azerbaijan lies in the borderlands of Asia and Europe . It is situated in the south-eastern part of the southern Caucasus and shares borders in the north with the Russian Federation , the south with the Islamic Republic of Iran , the west with Turkey , Georgia and Armenia and in the east its neighbours across the Caspian Sea are Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan . The Autonomous Republic of Naxçivan is part of the Republic of Azerbaijan . History Scholars consider Azerbaijan to include "" the land populated today by the Azeri Turks , the people who inhabit the region stretching from the northern slopes of the Caucuses mountains along the Caspian Sea to the Iranian plateau "" . Azerbaijan is among the areas of earliest human settlement , with evidence of human habitation since the Palaeolithic age . Settlements engaging in agriculture and livestock-raising were widely distributed about this area in the seventh and sixth millennia BC . Rock paintings in Gobustan near Baku are dated by scholars to the end of the seventh and beginning of the sixth millennia BC . The well-known Norwegian explorer Thor Heyerdal , who made special trips to Baku in 1979 and 1994 to study these rock paintings , believes that the shores of the Caspian Sea were the cradle for the civilization which then spread over water , southward and northward . Heyerdal found support for his hypothesis not only in the Gobustan petroglyphs of reed boats , remarkably similar to those depicted centuries later by the Vikings on the walls of caves in Norway , but also in sagas written down in the middle ages . The Gobustan rock paintings of boats surmounted by an image of the sun also attest irrefutably to the ties between the early settlements of Azerbaijan and the Sumero / Akkadian civilization of Mesopotamia , whose cultural legacy includes very similar depictions . In the third millennium BC and the early years of the second millennium BC , signs appear of the emergence of the first class societies , with a proto-urban civilization and embryonic state structures . It is at this time that the tribal alliances were formed of the Aratta , the Gutians and the Lullubites . According to Sumerian cuneiform sources , the first State to arise on the territory of historical Azerbaijan was the state of Aratta , which came into being in the first half of the third millennium BC in the area to the south and south-east of lake Urmia . From about 2300 BC , the second State of ancient Azerbaijan sprang up in the area south of lake Urmia - the state of Lullubum . The Gutian state was formed later in the second half of the third millennium BC in the area west and south-west of lake Urmia . In 2175 BC , the Gutians conquered Sumer and Akkad and ruled over them for the next 100 years . The ancient states of Azerbaijan , which maintained political , economic and cultural ties with Sumer and Akkad and formed part of the wider civilization of Mesopotamia , were governed by dynasties of Turkic descent . The Turkophone peoples which have inhabited the area of Azerbaijan since ancient times were fire-worshippers and adherents of one of the world's oldest religions - Zoroastrianism . The country's name , in its current form , is derived from a Turkic collocation meaning "" land , noble people , keepers of the flame "" . Over the period from the late ninth to the seventh centuries BC , the Mannaean kingdom held sway in the area of lake Urmia . The Cimmerian-Scythian-Saka kingdom flourished in the seventh and sixth centuries BC in the south-west of Azerbaijan . In the 670s BC , the Mannaean kingdom arose in the territory of Azerbaijan and was overthrown by the Persian Achaemenid kingdom in the mid-sixth century BC . A vital role was played in Azerbaijani history by the kingdom of Atropatene , which came into existence in the southern part of the country in the 520s BC and which was heavily influenced by Hellenism . The Caucasian Albanian state was created in the north of Azerbaijan in the third millennium BC , with the river Araxes as its southern frontier . This state successfully held out against the constant aggression of the Armenian state , which was then destroyed by the Romans in 66 BC . The people of Albania included a number of different nationalities , most of which spoke Turkic languages . Christianity was adopted in Albania in 313 . The territory of Albania also included the mountainous part of Karabagh , which was known at that time as Artsakh . Over the period from the first to the fourth centuries , when the entire Caucasus area was under the Roman yoke , Albania remained the only independent state and with its political independence came a flowering of Albanian learning , language and literature . This same period say the growing strength and influence of the autocephalous Albanian Catholicosate and of the Albanian Church in general , which was independent of the other Christian churches and even propagated Christianity among the north Caucasian and Turkophone peoples . Following the invasion by the Arabs , the dominant religion from the early eighth century in Azerbaijan became Islam . Most of the Albanians also converted to Islam and only a minority retained their former religion . Bowing to the influence of the Byzantine Empire in the southern Caucasus , the Albanian Church , together with the Georgian Church , had accepted the dyophysite doctrine shortly before the Arab invasion . To create a barrier to the influence of Byzantine , the Caliphate - enlisting the help of the Armenian Church - steered the Albanian Church towards monophysitism and brought it under the dominion of the monophysite Armenian Gregorian Church , opening the way for the subsequent gradual Gregorianization of the Albanians living in the mountainous areas of Karabagh - or Artsakh . The cohabitation of the populations of Albania and Atropatene within the confines of a single state and their profession of one and the same religion helped ensure the consolidation of the people of Azerbaijan . The notions of freedom , independence and universal equality nurtured the Hurramite movement , led by Babak , which flourished in Azerbaijan in the early ninth century . Following the anti-Caliphate rising by the local population , several new states arose in the territory of Azerbaijan in the ninth century , the most powerful of which was the State of Shirvan , with its capital at Shemakha , which was ruled by the Shirvanshah dynasty . This endured until the sixteenth century and played an enormous role in the history of medieval Azerbaijan . The independent states of the Sajids , Salarids , Ravvadids ( with their capital at Tabriz ) and Shaddadids ( with their capital at Ganja ) arose from the ninth to the eleventh centuries in the territory of Azerbaijan . Azerbaijan was ruled by the Seljuk dynasty from the end of the eleventh century . Over the period 1136-1225 , the Atabek Eldegiz state held sway in Azerbaijan . The sharing by the country's indigenous population of a common Turkic language and Turkic provenance and their adherence to the same Islamic faith made possible a process of consolidation of the Azerbaijani nation which reached its culmination in the eleventh and twelfth centuries . This same period saw the greatest flowering of the culture of Azerbaijan , which bequeathed to the world an array of illustrious philosophers , architects , poets and scholars . The crowning achievement of Azerbaijani social and cultural thought of that period was the work of Nizami Ganjavi ( 1141-1209 ) , poet and philosopher , now one of the treasures of the world's cultural heritage . The twelfth and thirteenth centuries saw the rise to prominence , in the mountainous regions of Karabagh , of the Khachen principality , ruled by the Albanian kings . The rule of Hasan Jalal ( 1215-1262 ) ushered in an Albanian renaissance and saw the completion of the construction of Gandzasar monastery complex , whose cathedral was to become the centre of the early church and whose consecration was presided over by the Catholicos of Albania . From the mid-thirteenth century , the Azerbaijani states became vassels of the Mongol Hulagid dynasty ( 1258-1356 ) . In the mid-fourteenth century , following an uprising by the local population to cast off the yoke of the invaders , the local Jalairid feudal lords took up the reins of power and , with the support of the Azerbaijani nobility , established the Jalairid state ( 1359-1410 ) . From the end of the fourteenth century , Azerbaijan was repeatedly invaded by Tamberlaine and served as the theatre for his battles with the Golden Horde . The Turkmen dynasties of Qara-Qoyunlu and Aq-Qoyunlu ruled over Azerbaijan in 1410-1468 and 1468-1501 and under them Azerbaijan grew significantly in power . In 1501 , the Safavid state was formed in Azerbaijan , named after the ruling dynasty , with its capital at Tabriz . Under this dynasty , all the lands of Azerbaijan were united , for the first time in their history , into a single Azerbaijani state . The territory of the Safavid state stretched from the Amu Darya river to the Euphrates , and from Derbent to the shores of the Persian Gulf . This polity was created and developed as an essentially Azerbaijani state and all political power remained in the hands of the Azerbaijani feudal nobility . Senior court officials , military generals and provincial governors were all appointed from among the Azerbaijani nobility . The army was made up from the militia of the most powerful Azerbaijani clans . Azeri was the official language of the Safavid state . By the end of the sixteenth century , the capital of the Safavid state had been transferred to Isfahan and its shah now drew his support primarily from the Persian nobility . The State , while ruled by an Azerbaijan dynasty , took on an increasingly Persian aspect . In the 1740s , with the weakening of the power exercised by the Persian shahs over the territory of Azerbaijan , the country disintegrated into some 20 khanates , namely , Ardabil , Baku , Ganja , Derbent , Erivan , Javad , Karabagh , Karadagh , Khoi , Maku , Maragin , Nakhichevan , Quba , Salyan , Sarab , Shirvan , Sheki , Tabriz , Talysh and Urumi . In addition to these khanates , the country was further subdivided into the sultanates of Kazah-Samshadil , Borchala , Ilisu , Araxes , Gutgashen and Gabala . Upper Karabagh , which was inhabited by Azerbaijani Muslims and Albanian Christians , formed an integral part of the Azerbaijani khanate of Karabagh , which covered the territories lying between the Kura and Araxes rivers . The local duchies - or "" melikdoms "" - of Dizak , Varanda , Khachen , Jeraberd and Gulistan , all of which lay within the mountainous regions of Karabagh , also formed part of this khanate , to which their inhabitants owed allegiance as vassals . At the end of the eighteenth and in the first third of the nineteenth centuries , Azerbaijan was fought over by the Persian , Russian and Ottoman empires , each eager to secure hegemony over this country whose geopolitical situation lent it significant strategic advantages . A number of the khanates rose in arms to defend their sovereignty , while others were forced , in an effort to defend their own interests , to conclude agreements reducing them to the status of vassaldom . Thus , on 14 May 1805 , a treaty was signed on the banks of the river Kura with the Azerbaijani khan , Ibrahim Halil , under which the independent Azerbaijani khanate of Karabagh was placed under Russian overlordship . This treaty has particular resonance today , since it demonstrates that Karabagh historically formed part of Azerbaijan . The first Russo-Persian war of 1804-1813 , fought to establish dominance over the Azerbaijani khanates , resulted in the first division of Azerbaijani territories between Russia and Persia . The peace treaty of Gulistan , signed on 12 October 1813 by Russia and Persia , gave legal recognition to the effective annexation by Russia over the period 1800-1806 of the khanates of northern Azerbaijan , with the exception of Nakhichevan and Erivan . The second Russo-Persian war of 1826-1828 led , on 10 February 1828 , to the signing of the Turkmanchai peace treaty , under which Persia officially renounced its claims to northern Azerbaijan and finally recognized its annexation , with the inclusion of the Nakhichevan and Erivan khanates , by Russia . It is important to stress that all the khanates listed above , including Karabagh , were annexed to Russia as purely Azerbaijani possessions . They were Azerbaijani by virtue of their predominantly Azeri populations and the ethnic composition of their dominant feudal elite ( the khans themselves , the major landowners , the clergy etc. ) . Under the Treaty of Turkmanchai and the peace treaty concluded in Edirne in 1829 , the Armenians then inhabiting Persia and the Ottoman empire were relocated to Azerbaijan , primarily to the khanates of Nakhichevan , Erivan and Karabagh . Thus , the Russian scholar K. Shavrov records that , over the period 1828-1830 alone , some 40,000 Persian and 84,000 Turkish Armenians were relocated in the Trans-Caucasus , where they were settled in the best indigenous lands of the Yelisavetpol ( Karabagh ) and Erivan provinces , where the Armenian population had previously been negligible and where they were allocated 200,000 dessiatines ( 225 , 000 hectares ) of State land . In his notebooks , the Russian diplomat and playwright Alexander Griboedov wrote : "" For the most part , the Armenians were settled on the estates of Mohammedan landowners ( ... ) . These new settlers are crowding out the Mohammedans ( ... ) . We have also given careful thought to the council which must be given to the Mohammedans , so as to reconcile them to this aggravation , which will not be long in duration , and to dispel any apprehensions which they may have that the Armenians will take permanent possession of the lands where they have been initially settled . "" The American academic Justin McCarthy adduces the following facts about the settlement of the Southern Caucasus and , in particular , Azerbaijan , by Armenians . Between 1828 and 1920 , in pursuit of a policy designed to change the entire demographic make-up of Azerbaijan so that Armenians would outnumber Azerbaijanis , more than 2 million Muslims were forcibly expelled and an unknown number killed . On two occasions , in 1828 and 1854 , the Russians invaded eastern Anatolia and on both occasions they left , taking with them 100,000 Armenian sympathizers to the Caucasus , where they took the place of Turks - i . e . Azerbaijanis - who had emigrated or died . In the war of 1877-1878 , Russia seized the district of Kars-Ardahan , driving out the Muslim population and settling 70,000 Armenians in their homes . Some 60,000 Armenians resettled in the Russian Caucasus during the troubles of 1895-1896 . Finally , the migrations of the First World War resulted in an almost even exchange of 400,000 Armenians from eastern Anatolia for 400,000 Muslims from the Caucasus . According to McCarthy's information , between 1828 and 1920 some 560,000 Armenians were resettled in Azerbaijan . In other words , it was actually after the conquest of the southern Caucasus by Russia that the Armenian population of the Azerbaijani lands north of the river Araxes increased so dramatically . When we look at Karabagh , we see from official records for 1810 - in other words , shortly before its annexation by Russia - that the khanate of Karabagh had some 12,000 households , of which 9,500 were Azerbaijani and a mere 2,500 Armenian . According to data for 1823 , there was one town in the Karabagh khanate - Shusha - and some 600 villages , 450 of which were Azerbaijani and about 150 Armenian , with a total population of some 90,000 . The relative figures for Azerbaijani and Armenian households in Shusha were 1,048 and 474 , and in the countryside , 12,902 and 4,331 , respectively . The Armenians living in Karabagh were in fact descendents of the local Albanian population , which had been extensively Armenianized . Thus , the Armenian writer B. Ishkhanian points out that the Armenians residing in Nagorny Karabakh are in part indigenous , descended from the ancient Albanians , and in part refugees from Turkey and Persia , for whom the Azerbaijani lands offered a refuge from persecution and oppression . Under a decree promulgated by Tsar Nicholas I on 21 March 1828 , the Azerbaijani khanates of Nakhichevan and Erivan were dissolved and replaced by a new administrative entity known as the "" Armenian oblast "" , administered by Russian officials ; in 1849 , the Armenian oblast was renamed the province ( "" guberniya "" ) of Erivan . In pursuit of their ultimate goals , the Armenians persuaded the Russian authorities to abolish the Albanian Christian patriarchate , which had been in operation in Azerbaijan , and to transfer its property to the Armenian Church . Following the loss of their state sovereignty and distinct confessional identity , the local Albanian population in the western regions of former Albania - the Karabagh region - into which Armenian settlers continued to pour , gradually started to undergo a process of Gregorianization , or Armenianization . After the revolutionary events of 1917 in Russia , the processes of disintegration of the country became more pronounced and the conditions were ripe for the formation , in outlying ethnic regions of the former Russian Empire , of independent States . Thus , on 28 May 1918 , the Azerbaijani Democratic Republic was proclaimed in the territory of the eastern part of the southern Caucasus - the first parliamentary democracy in the Islamic east - which was to play a historic role in the renaissance and formation of the sense of ethnic identity and statehood of the Azerbaijani nation . The development of the Azerbaijani Democratic Republic , both as a nation and as a State , was based on the doctrine of "" Azerbaijanism "" , which hinged on the principles of modernism , Islamism and Turanism , symbolizing the Azerbaijani people's aspiration for progress based on preservation of their adherence to Islamic civilization and Turkic culture and on their separate ethnic identity . In its brief existence of less than two years , the multi-party Azerbaijani parliament and the coalition Government managed to take a number of important steps in the process of nation-building and the development of statehood , and in such areas as education , formation of an army , development of independent financial and economic systems and securing international recognition for the young republic as a full member of the international community of nations . On 11 January 1920 , the Paris Peace Conference , with the Treaty of Versailles , accorded de facto recognition of the independence of the Azerbaijani Republic , to whose capital - Baku - 20 countries had already sent their representatives . In late 1919 and early 1920 , however , the political situation of the Azerbaijani Democratic Republic - both at home and abroad - worsened considerably . The country found itself caught up in a ferocious tug-of-war between the countries of the Entente , Turkey , Russia and Persia , each pursuing its own geopolitical goals in this strategically important and oil-rich area . The political decision by the Bolshevist Government of the Russian Socialist Federative Republic ( RSFSR ) not to recognize the Azerbaijani Democratic Republic , the deployment of the Eleventh Red Army on the frontiers of the Azerbaijani Republic in Spring 1920 , the aggression waged by Dashnak-ruled Armenia against Azerbaijan in Karabagh and Zangezur , the terrorist strikes by Armenian groups and the Bolsheviks against the peaceful Azerbaijani population inside Azerbaijan and the social and economic crisis gripping the country - all these factors combined to bring about the weakening of the Azerbaijani Democratic Republic and led to the occupation of its capital by the Eleventh Army on 27-28 April 1920 . As stated in a telegram from the general staff of the Caucasian front to the Eleventh Army command , dated 1 May 1920 , RSFSR troops had been instructed to take possession of the entire territory of Azerbaijan lying within the confines of the former Russian Empire , but without crossing the Persian border . The 70 years during which it formed part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ( USSR ) marked a new , important stage in the development of Azerbaijani statehood , during which the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic forged ahead in its social , economic and cultural development . At the same time , the Soviet period also saw many negative trends emerge in Azerbaijan , as elsewhere throughout the USSR . At the economic level , the country became a reservoir of fuel , raw materials and agricultural produce for the Soviet economy . At the cultural level , the imposition of the Cyrillic alphabet in the place of the Latin alphabet severed the country's ties with the fountainhead Azerbaijani literature and culture . The Soviet regime was at pains to suppress any efforts by the Azerbaijani intelligentsia to manifest their separate ethnic identity and to study the true history of their country . During the Soviet period , the territories of Zangezur , Gekcha , part of Naxçivan and other districts were hived off from Azerbaijan and attached to neighbouring Armenia . As a result , the country's area , which during the period of the Azerbaijani Democratic Republic , in 1920 , had measured 114,000 square kilometres was reduced during the period 1920-1921 to 86,600 square kilometres . In addition , on 7 July 1923 , on the initiative of the Moscow leaders of the Bolshevist part , the so-called Nagorny Karabakh autonomous region , with a predominantly Armenian population , was artificially carved out of a part of the territory of historical Karabagh , the majority of whose population had been Azerbaijanis . That decision marked the first step in the political campaign to amputate Nagorny Karabakh from the rest of Azerbaijan . During the years 1988-1990 , the national democratic movement in Azerbaijan campaigned vigorously for the restoration of the country's independence . With a view to suppressing this movement , on 20 January 1990 , with the approval of the Soviet leadership under Mikhail Gorbachev , Soviet army units were dispatched to Baku . Their reprisals , which were conducted with uncommon savagery , left hundreds of innocent Azerbaijani citizens dead and wounded . A state of emergency was declared in the country and this remained in force until mid-1991 . Notwithstanding these setbacks , the untiring struggle for independence by the patriotic forces of the Azerbaijani people culminated in the adoption on 31 August 1991 , by the Supreme Council of the Republic of Azerbaijan , of a declaration on the restoration of the State independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan . On 18 October 1991 saw the passage of the act establishing the State independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan , which set out the foundations for the statehood of an independent Azerbaijan and determined the principles of its political and economic structure . With that act , the Republic of Azerbaijan once again , after a 71-year interval , became an independent subject of international law . Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan Following a referendum on 12 November 1995 , the new Constitution of the Azerbaijani Republic was adopted and entered into force on 5 December 1995 . The country's basic law was developed in line with the fundamental principles and norms of international law . As stipulated by article 1 of the Constitution , "" In the Republic of Azerbaijan , the Azerbaijani people shall be the sole source of State power "" . Under article 2 of the Constitution , the people of Azerbaijan shall exercise their sovereign right directly through nationwide voting ( referendums ) and through representatives elected on the basis of universal , equal and direct suffrage by free , secret and personal ballot . Article 7 of the Constitution stipulates that the Azerbaijani State shall be a democratic , constitutional , secular and unitary republic . In Azerbaijan , the power of the State shall be restricted in domestic matters only by the country's law and , in foreign affairs , only by the provisions arising from international treaties to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a party . State power in the Republic of Azerbaijan shall be based on the principle of the following division of powers : ( a ) Legislative power shall be exercised by the Milli Meclis ( parliament ) of the Republic of Azerbaijan ; ( b ) Executive power rests with the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan ; ( c ) Judicial power shall be exercised by the courts of the Republic of Azerbaijan . Pursuant to the Constitution , the legislature , executive and judiciary shall interact with one another and be independent within their various jurisdictions . Article 8 of the Constitution states that the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan shall be the head of State . For the purpose of organizing the administration of executive power , the President of the Republic shall establish a cabinet of ministers , which shall serve as the supreme organ of executive power of the President of the Republic and shall be answerable and subordinate to the head of State . As stipulated by article 125 of the Constitution , judicial power in Azerbaijan shall be exercised only by the courts and on the basis of due process . The courts comprise the Constitutional Court , the Supreme Court , the Economic Court , and the general and special courts . C. Aggression by the Republic of Armenia against the Republic of Azerbaijan While still part of the USSR , Azerbaijan already encountered threats against its territorial integrity and security . In February 1988 a decision was taken by the regional council of the Nagorny Karabakh autonomous region of the Azerbaijan SSR , without the participation of any Azerbaijani deputies , for the withdrawal of the Nagorny Karabakh autonomous region from Azerbaijan and its annexation to Armenia . On 1 December 1989 , the Supreme Soviet of the Armenian SSR took a decision , which has never been rescinded , on the annexation of the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan to Armenia . These decisions contravene the constitutions of the USSR and the Azerbaijan SSR . In 1988 , Azerbaijanis living in Armenia started to be driven out of the country . The Soviet authorities proved incapable of halting these unconstitutional acts by Armenia and preventing raids into Azerbaijani territory by paramilitary formations and terrorist groups . At the time the Nagorny Karabakh conflict first erupted , there were some 186,100 people living in the region , of whom 138,600 were Armenians ( 73 . 5 per cent ) and 47,500 Azerbaijanis ( 25 . 3 per cent ) . Full-scale military operations commenced in late 1991 and early 1992 . Armenian military units launched combat operations in Nagorny Karabakh with the use of the latest weapons and these culminated in February 1992 with the seizure of the town of Khojaly , in the course of which more than 600 civilians were killed , including women , children and old people , and with the occupation in May 1992 of the town of Shusha and of Shusha district . Following these actions , the entire Azerbaijani population was expelled from Nagorny Karabakh and the occupation of the territory was completed . With the seizure of Lachin in May 1992 , the territory of Nagorny Karabakh was joined to Armenia . After this , hostilities spread further through Azerbaijan , passing beyond the administrative frontiers of the Nagorny Karabakh region , and also crossing the Armenian-Azerbaijani frontier . A further six Azerbaijani districts were occupied by Armenia . As a result , Armenian aggression against the Republic of Azerbaijan led to the occupation of more than 17,000 square kilometres , constituting some 20 per cent of the country's territory , more than 50,000 people were wounded or left disabled and more than 18,000 people killed , and 877 settlements , 100,000 homes , more than 1,000 economic facilities , more than 600 schools and colleges , 250 medical centres and most of the architectural monuments situated within the occupied area were looted or destroyed . As a result of Armenian aggression and ethnic cleansing of Azerbaijanis , both from the territory of Armenia itself and from occupied Azerbaijani lands , there are now some 1 million refugees and displaced persons in Azerbaijan . Efforts to mediate a settlement to the conflict Efforts to mediate a settlement to the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict were launched in February 1992 in the framework of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe ( CSCE ) . At their meeting in Helsinki on 24 March 1992 , the CSCE Council of Ministers decided to convene a conference on Nagorny Karabakh in Minsk , under the auspices of CSCE as the standing body for negotiations to reach a peaceful settlement to conflicts on the basis of the Conference's principles , obligations and provisions . In its resolutions 822 ( 1993 ) of 30 April 1993 , 853 ( 1993 ) of 29 July 1993 , 874 ( 1993 ) of 14 October 1993 and 884 ( 1993 ) of 12 November 1993 , the United Nations Security Council condemned the occupation of the territory of Azerbaijan Republic , reaffirmed respect for the sovereignty , territorial integrity and inviolability of the borders of the Azerbaijani Republic and the inadmissibility of the use of force for the acquisition of territory , and demanded the immediate cessation of armed hostilities and hostile acts , as well as the immediate , complete and unconditional withdrawal of all occupying forces from the occupied districts of Azerbaijan . A ceasefire has been in place since May 1994 . At the CSCE Budapest Summit on 5 and 6 December 1994 , it was decided that the heads of State and Government of the countries members of CSCE would launch a process under the co-Chairmen of the Minsk Conference to coordinate all efforts to mediate a resolution of the conflict within the framework of CSCE . The Budapest Summit set the Chairman-in-Office of CSCE the task of conducting negotiations for the conclusion of a political agreement on the cessation of the armed conflict , the implementation of which would eliminate major consequences of the conflict and permit the convening of the Minsk Conference . A decision was also taken at the Summit to deploy a multinational CSCE peacekeeping force , following agreement among the parties for cessation of the armed conflict , and to convene a high-level planning group to prepare the envisaged peacekeeping operation . At the Lisbon Summit of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) , the following principles were worked out for settling the armed conflict , recommended by the co-Chairmen of the OSCE Minsk Group and supported by all the OSCE member States , with the exception of Armenia : ( a ) Territorial integrity of the Armenian Republic and the Azerbaijani Republic ; ( b ) Legal status of Nagorny Karabakh as defined by an agreement based on self-determination and affording Nagorny Karabakh the highest degree of self-government within Azerbaijan ; ( c ) Guaranteed security for Nagorny Karabakh and its entire population , including mutual responsibility to ensure that all parties observe the provisions of the settlement . In 1999 , direct talks were instituted between the Presidents of Armenia and Azerbaijan but were prevented from reaching any settlement of the conflict by the obstructive position taken by the Armenian side . Despite the categorical requirements of the United Nations Security Council and other organizations , Armenia continues to the present day to occupy areas of Azerbaijan and to build up its military potential in those areas . As stipulated by article 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan , it is the paramount objective of the State to uphold human and civil rights and freedoms . Chapter III of the Constitution is devoted to fundamental human and civil rights and freedoms . The chapter comprises the following articles : A rapid process of legal and judicial reform has been conducted in Azerbaijan , embracing the adoption of , such instruments as the Criminal Code , the Code of Criminal Procedure , the Civil Code , the Code of Civil Procedure and the Penal Enforcement Code . In addition , statutes have been adopted on the Constitutional Court , on the courts and judges , on the procuratorial system , on the bar and the legal profession , on the police , and on other important matters . A totally reconfigured three-stage judicial system has been set in place . New judges have been selected on the basis of examinations and appointed to their posts . The country's penitentiary system has been brought into line with international standards . An act has been passed establishing an ombudsman's office and amendments made to the acts on the Central Electoral Commission and on the mass media . Appropriate changes have been made to the country's laws to take account of the views and recommendations of international organizations . Section VIII of the Azerbaijani Criminal Code , which entered into force on 1 September 2000 , deals with offences against the individual . It contains chapters on offences against life and health ( chap . 18 , arts . 120-143 ) ; the freedom and dignity of the individual ( chap . 19 , arts . 144-148 ) ; the sexual inviolability and sexual freedom of the individual ( chap . 20 , arts . 149-153 ) ; constitutional human and civil rights and freedoms ( chap . 21 , arts . 154-169 ) ; and matters relating to juveniles and families ( chap . 22 , arts . 170-176 ) . The procedures for legal defence are also set forth in the Code of Criminal Procedure , the Penal Enforcement Code and the statutes on the consideration of applications by citizens , of 10 June 1997 ; on compensation for injury caused to individuals through the unlawful acts of the initial inquiry , pre-trial investigation , procuratorial and court authorities , of 29 December 1998 ; and on the submission of complaints to the courts regarding decisions and actions or omissions which infringe citizens' rights and freedoms , of 11 June 1999 . As stated in article 1 of the Unlawful Acts by the Initial Inquiry , Pre-trial Investigation , Procuratorial and Court Authorities ( Compensation to Individuals ) Act , compensation must be paid for any injury caused to any person in the territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan through the unlawful actions of the country's initial inquiry , pre-trial investigation , procuratorial or court authorities . The act contains a list of such unlawful actions . The Decision and Actions or Omissions Infringing Civil Rights and Freedoms ( Complaints to the Courts ) Act sets out rules for the lodging of challenges in the courts against decisions and actions or omissions which infringe the rights and freedoms enjoyed by Azerbaijani citizens established by the Constitution and by international treaties to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a party and also contains provisions on judicial procedures to uphold the rights and freedoms of citizens . Pursuant to article 1 of the Decisions and Actions or Omissions Infringing Civil Rights and Freedoms ( Complaints to the Court ) Act , all citizens of the Republic of Azerbaijan who consider that their rights and freedoms have been infringed as a result of decisions and actions or omissions by State authorities , local authorities , enterprises , institutions , organizations , voluntary associations or officials , shall be entitled to appeal to the courts . Aliens and stateless persons may appeal to the appropriate court in the manner prescribed by law , except as otherwise stipulated in international treaties to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a party . A court ruling which has entered into force shall be binding on all State and local authorities , enterprises , institutions , organizations , voluntary associations and officials . In the event that a court ruling is not observed , the court shall adopt the appropriate measures , as prescribed by Azerbaijani legislation ( see article 7 of the Decisions and Actions or Omissions Infringing Civil Rights and Freedoms ( Complaints to the Courts ) Act . The Parties to Criminal Proceedings ( State Protection ) Act of 11 December 1998 sets out a system of measures to ensure the safety and social protection of victims and witnesses in criminal proceedings and of other parties to such proceedings . The safety measures defined by this act shall be applied whenever the safety of those persons can not be guaranteed by other means . The Republic of Azerbaijan is a party to all the major multilateral human rights treaties and regularly submits reports on its implementation of the provisions of those treaties to the appropriate treaty bodies . On 25 December 2001 , the Azerbaijani Parliament ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms . Under the Azerbaijani legal system , the provisions of international treaties may be cited in the courts and in other administrative bodies . Pursuant to paragraph 2 of article 12 of the Azerbaijani Constitution , the human and civil rights and freedoms enumerated in the Constitution shall be exercised in accordance with the international treaties to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a party . Paragraph 2 of article 148 of the Constitution states that international treaties to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a party form an integral part of the legislative system of the Republic of Azerbaijan . Article 151 of the Constitution stipulates that , in the event of conflict between the laws and regulations forming part of Azerbaijani law ( except for the Constitution and statutes adopted by referendum ) and the provisions of international treaties to which the Republic of Azerbaijan is a party , the international treaty provisions shall prevail . In accordance with the presidential decree of 22 February 1998 on measures to uphold human and civil rights and freedoms , the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the President's own executive office are responsible , together with the appropriate State authorities , for taking the necessary steps , in connection with the legal reforms currently under way , to ensure that the country's laws and regulations are fully consistent with international human rights standards . With a view to promoting and protecting human rights , the President of Azerbaijan has promulgated a number of decrees , including on a State human rights programme ; on additional measures to uphold the freedom of speech , opinion and information ; and on celebrations for the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . In February 1998 , on the recommendation of the President , the Azerbaijani Parliament abolished the death sentence in Azerbaijan . Under the International Treaties of the Republic of Azerbaijan ( Conclusion , Application and Denunciation Procedure ) Act , the Republic of Azerbaijan is required to comply faithfully with its international treaties in accordance with the rules of international law . Article 17 of that act stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers , ministries , State committees , departments and other government agencies of the Republic of Azerbaijan with jurisdiction over the various issues governed by the country's international treaties shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with the obligations entered into under such treaties . Article 25 of the International Treaties of the Republic of Azerbaijan ( Conclusion , Application and Denunciation Procedure ) Act stipulates that international treaties of the Republic of Azerbaijan which have been ratified , approved or adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Act , or international treaties to which the Republic of Azerbaijan has acceded , shall be published , on application by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs , in the Gazette of the Milli Meclis and in the official State newspaper of the Republic of Azerbaijan . International treaties of the Republic of Azerbaijan whose authentic texts have been drawn up in foreign languages shall be published in one of these languages together with an official translation into Azeri . Article 26 of the same act requires all international treaties of the Republic of Azerbaijan to be registered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the register of international treaties of the Republic of Azerbaijan . The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also responsible for registration of all the country's international treaties with the Secretariat of the United Nations or with the relevant offices of other international organizations . The Ministry of Justice includes among its services a department of legislation and legal publicity , one of whose responsibilities is to conduct public awareness measures relating to legal matters . To this end , employees of the department publish articles in the press and make presentations on television . Reports by the Republic of Azerbaijan under the international human rights treaties to which the country is a party are prepared by the Government in accordance with presidential decrees and decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers and are submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs . For the purpose of preparing these reports , working groups are set up , by presidential order , which include among their members representatives of the relevant State agencies . The services of representatives of non-governmental organizations and independent experts are also enlisted in the preparation of these reports . The process of preparing these reports and their submission by government delegations to the treaty bodies of the United Nations is widely covered in the media . In 1998 , with the assistance of the Azerbaijani National Commission for UNESCO , a compilation of United Nations human rights treaties was published in the Azeri language . In 2001 , the Ministry of Justice issued a compilation of human rights instruments , including international treaties , presidential decrees and orders by the Ministry of Justice relating to human rights , the prevention of torture and respect for the rights of convicted persons in places of detention in accordance with international standards . This compilation is designed to be used by all the country's law-enforcement agencies , correctional facilities and courts . Azeri translations of international human rights instruments and also scientific articles on various aspects of international human rights law are regularly published in the journals Vozrozhdenie - XXI vek and Mezhdunarodnoe pravo , published by the Institute for Nation-Building and International Affairs and the Association for International Law and International Relations . The technical assistance programme for Azerbaijan launched by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights also contains provision for the dissemination of information about international human rights instruments . Notes HRI / CORE / 1 / Add . 117 HRI / CORE / 1 / Add . 117 Tadeusz Swietochowski , Russia and Azerbaijan : A Borderland in Transition ( New York , Colombia University Press , 1995 ) , p. 1 . Trud , 26 April 1995 . Shavrov , Novaya ugroza russkomu delu v Zakavkazye : rasprodazha Mugani inorodtsam , St. Petersburg , 1911 . A. S. Griboedov , Gore ot uma . Pis ' ma i zapiski , Baku , 1989 , p. 387 . Justin McCarthy , "" Armenian terrorism : History as poison and antidote "" , in : Proceedings of the Symposium on International Terrorism , Ankara , 1984 , pp. 85-94 . Prisoedinenie vostochnoi Armenii k Rossii , vol. 1 , Yerevan , 1972 , p. 562 . Opisaniya Karabakhskoi provintsii , sostavlennogo v 1823 g . deistvitenl ' nym statskim sovetnikom Mogilevskim i polkovnikom Ermolovym , Tiflis , 1866 . B. Ishkhanian , Narodnosti Kavkaza , Petrograd , 1916 ."	Information/Explanation
1180	CIE is me . And maybe it 's you too . Imaginative Soft . Unpredictable ... CIE ... here to dazzle the free-world of women . There 's nobody else exactly like Me ! There 's a new Babe in town . And it 's you . You 're hard to keep up with . Sometimes you 're restless and reckless and could n't be sassier ... Ritz . The fragrance that 's filled with spirit . And expresses yours . Because you 'd rather be yourself than anyone else . The new panty that breathes like you !	Promotion
1237	For Goldman Sachs , a public-relations disaster had real consequences this week – $ 2 . 15 billion consequences on Wednesday . That 's the market value stripped away from Goldman's stock price when shares dropped 3.4 % after Greg Smith's farewell to the company in The New York Times Op-Ed section . ( The Times paid Smith the standard $ 150 rate for the unsolicited letter . ) Today on Sound Off , Sterling's semi-regular podcast series , Kevin Pedraja and Lisa Hawes discuss the media firestorm ignited by this and a spate of recent public resignations . What are the dangers posed to companies when employees use traditional and now , social , media to air their grievances ? What lessons can be learned ? All this and more in eight minutes .	News
985	Influential midfielder Steve Sidwell faces a two game ban after picking up his tenth yelow card of the season . Steve Sidwell will be forced to watch from the stands when Reading take on league leaders Ipswich Town at the Madejski Stadium next weekend . The 22-year-old , who became the club's youngest ever captain last month , faces a two-game spell on the sidelines after picking up his tenth yellow card of the season away at Burnley this afternoon . Gritty midfielder Sidwell has been a consistent performer in the centre of the park this season so will be sorely missed . The former Brighton and Brentford loanee will also miss our league game against Plymouth Argyle in early February or , if we win our Third Round replay , our FA Cup Fourth Round fixture against either Leicester or Blackpool But top of the Championship Ipswich will prove tough opponents for Reading next weekend so Harper and Hughes , who are likely to fill the two central midfield spots , will have to be at their best if the Royals are to pick up three precious points . It is thought that American winger Bobby Convey will retain his place in the team for the game against the league leaders having put in some impressive performances in his last two outings . Veteran frontman Les Ferdinand could be back from injury in time for next weekend's big game , although he will miss out on playing in Monday night's cup replay at Swansea .	News
387	Men's Mizuno Wave Nirvana 2 Running Shoes ( 08KN540 62 ) By using their innovative Wave Technology , the Mizuno Wave Nirvana 2 not only offers full length cushioning , for impact protection , but full length support as well , to help reduce over pronation , when the arch of your foot collapses too far , which can be the cause of many running related injuries . The Wave plate is made from different materials throughout the shoe , the outside of the shoe ( lateral , non arch side ) is made form rubber to absorb and dissipate shock while the inside ( medial , arch side ) is made from Pebax which as well as absorbing and dissipating shock adds stability by being harder to compress than the other side , which helps to reduce over pronation . Additional cushioning is provided by VS-1 inserts in both the heel and forefoot . Comparable shoes ; Asics Gel Kayano , Brooks Trance , New Balance 1220 series , Nike Air Kantara , Saucony 3D Grid Hurricane . Full Spec and what has changed form the previous model . For a glossary of MIZUNO technologies click HERE	Promotion
923	"From time to time , indeed , they raised great shouts , calling alternately Barbicane and Nicholl , neither of whom , however , answered their cries . Only the birds , awakened by the sound , flew past them and disappeared among the branches , while some frightened deer fled precipitately before them . For another hour their search was continued . The greater part of the wood had been explored . There was nothing to reveal the presence of the combatants . The information of the bushman was after all doubtful , and Ardan was about to propose their abandoning this useless pursuit , when all at once Maston stopped . "" Hush ! "" said he , "" there is some one down there ! "" "" Some one ? "" repeated Michel Ardan . "" Yes ; a man ! He seems motionless . His rifle is not in his hands . What can he be doing ? "" "" But can you recognize him ? "" asked Ardan , whose short sight was of little use to him in such circumstances . "" Yes ! yes ! He is turning toward us , "" answered Maston . "" And it is ? "" "" Captain Nicholl ! "" "" Nicholl ? "" cried Michel Ardan , feeling a terrible pang of grief . "" Nicholl unarmed ! He has , then , no longer any fear of his adversary ! "" "" Let us go to him , "" said Michel Ardan , "" and find out the truth . "" But he and his companion had barely taken fifty steps , when they paused to examine the captain more attentively . They expected to find a bloodthirsty man , happy in his revenge . On seeing him , they remained stupefied . A net , composed of very fine meshes , hung between two enormous tulip-trees , and in the midst of this snare , with its wings entangled , was a poor little bird , uttering pitiful cries , while it vainly struggled to escape . The bird-catcher who had laid this snare was no human being , but a venomous spider , peculiar to that country , as large as a pigeon's egg , and armed with enormous claws . The hideous creature , instead of rushing on its prey , had beaten a sudden retreat and taken refuge in the upper branches of the tulip-tree , for a formidable enemy menaced its stronghold . Here , then , was Nicholl , his gun on the ground , forgetful of danger , trying if possible to save the victim from its cobweb prison . At last it was accomplished , and the little bird flew joyfully away and disappeared . Nicholl lovingly watched its flight , when he heard these words pronounced by a voice full of emotion : "" You are indeed a brave man . "" He turned . Michel Ardan was before him , repeating in a different tone : "" And a kindhearted one ! "" "" Michel Ardan ! "" cried the captain . "" Why are you here ? "" "" To press your hand , Nicholl , and to prevent you from either killing Barbicane or being killed by him . "" "" Barbicane ! "" returned the captain . "" I have been looking for him for the last two hours in vain . Where is he hiding ? "" "" Nicholl ! "" said Michel Ardan , "" this is not courteous ! we ought always to treat an adversary with respect ; rest assureed if Barbicane is still alive we shall find him all the more easily ; because if he has not , like you , been amusing himself with freeing oppressed birds , he must be looking for you . When we have found him , Michel Ardan tells you this , there will be no duel between you . "" "" Between President Barbicane and myself , "" gravely replied Nicholl , "" there is a rivalry which the death of one of us ---- "" "" Pooh , pooh ! "" said Ardan . "" Brave fellows like you indeed ! you shall not fight ! "" "" I will fight , sir ! "" "" No ! "" "" Captain , "" said J. T. Maston , with much feeling , "" I am a friend of the president 's , his alter ego , his second self ; if you really must kill some one , shoot me ! it will do just as well ! "" "" Sir , "" Nicholl replied , seizing his rifle convulsively , "" these jokes ---- "" "" Our friend Maston is not joking , "" replied Ardan . "" I fully understand his idea of being killed himself in order to save his friend . But neither he nor Barbicane will fall before the balls of Captain Nicholl . Indeed I have so attractive a proposal to make to the two rivals , that both will be eager to accept it . "" "" What is it ? "" asked Nicholl with manifest incredulity . "" Patience ! "" exclaimed Ardan ."	Prose/Lyrical
655	[ Back to list of True Stories ] [ Printable Verison ] New True Story - Andy's Story ( Coverage : UK Wide ) My parents just did n't want me . I 've always been a vulnerable sort of person . Easily led . Even as a young child I was sensitive , quiet , kept myself to myself . I gradually realised that I was gay at around 14 . I 'm living in a Probation & Bail Hostel now while I am on licence . I was on an electronic tag for three months when I first came out . I 've got eight convictions in total for 24 offences . I 've been in prison for most of the last four years . I 'm 32 now . My last conviction was for arson , others have ranged from fraud & deception to driving whilst disqualified . Alcohol is a problem for me . When I was five years old I went to live with my grandparents . They had more time for me . Felt sorry for me I suppose . I much preferred living with them than my parents . I was jealous of my two younger sisters , who I thought got more attention than me . They turned out fine . One is even a police officer . They are both married with children . The last sentence I got was in 2001 when I was charged with arson , being reckless through drinking alcohol . I was on remand for nine months and had two psychiatric reports . I pleaded guilty to it and got sentenced in 2002 to three years and nine months . My first crime was in 1989 ; I stole a railway pass from my granddad so I could explore the country . I got caught and arrested . The courts gave me a fine . I was 18 . My granddad died two years later and I have never stopped feeling terrible for what I did to him . I see this as the point when it all started to go downhill . I came out as gay when I was 16 . I never told my dad until I was 21 though . He just could n't get used to it and for ages he said it was just a phase I was going through . I do feel that being gay has made things worse for me . I have n't felt accepted by people . Just another reason to be picked out as different . It was very bad being gay in prison – probably my lowest point . At first I thought getting into trouble with the police and going to court was a big joke . I got cautions , fines and probation . I was scared of going to prison though . I got into the habit of never listening to anyone who tried to help me . I always thought I could beat the system . But I always ended up getting caught for what I 'd done . I 'm paying the price for what I 've done now . School was okay . I went on to college and got a professional catering qualification . I stopped doing crime when I was working . Then I went into the Army Careering Corps for nearly five years . I really enjoyed it . I had a steady relationship for nearly five years . We were both in our twenties . When I left the Army things got bad . I ended up back in crime . I had nowhere to live and ended up in a Salvation Army hostel . Eventually I moved back to my home area and got a steady job where I stayed for five years . I kept on drinking though and lost my driving licence . Eventually I got sent to prison for five months for driving without a licence . So I lost my job . I 'd thought that going to prison would change me forever . But it did n't – I ended up angrier . So angry with some people . In 2000 I was arrested on suspicion of arson , which I was later found not guilty of . At one time I did n't go to court when I should have because I was scared to face anything . I 've wasted four years of my life in prison . I could have done a lot better for myself . What changed me ? That last stretch in prison was the worst time for me . At one point I even wanted to end my life . The prison service told me to attend groups ( where a group of prisoners meet to discuss issues in their lives ) . These really helped me . The Enhanced Thinking Skills ( ETS ) I did with the probation service really helped me too . It helped me address my drinking problem . It taught me to think about what I do before I do it . If you stop and think first – then this can change your life . I can honestly say that the ETS has turned my life around . It used the seven steps strategy – looking at alternative choices and considering moral dilemmas . It helps you put yourself in other people's positions and see their views . Being on licence and living at the hostel has given me some support . I have to be answerable to the staff about where I am and what I 'm doing . If I break my licence then I will go back to prison – and I do n't want to go there again . Since I 've been at the hostel I 've been attending alcohol counselling which has included acupuncture . This has helped me . My first time in prison was for drinking while disqualified . I started drinking when I was younger , always thinking I could take more than I could . I went over the top and acted daft with it . My key worker has been there for me when I have had problems . I have n't been alone . My probation officer supports me trying to settle back into the community again . I am waiting for a flat – this is a major goal that I have set for myself . I have found a new person in my life and made new friends . To people I have hurt : I want to say that I have made mistakes in my life . And I am paying the price for it . I am so sorry for what I have done in the past to those people who trusted me . I am trying to get that trust back again .	Opinion/Argumentation
778	Division :: Developmental Neurobiology Head of Division :: Dr David Wilkinson Our Division studies how the nervous system develops in the embryos of vertebrates . The brain and spinal cord originate from the neural epithelium , a tissue that forms early in embryo development . The developing nervous system becomes intricately patterned such that different regions of the brain are formed , and different cell types are formed at appropriate positions . The connection of nerves with specific targets within the embryo establishes the foundations of the mature nervous system . Our research studies genes responsible for patterning the neural epithelium and we investigate how their expression results in the formation of different regions and cell types . Since development of neural tissue is very similar across different types of vertebrates , our labs use the distinct experimental advantages of different organisms ( including mice , chicks , frogs and zebrafish ) to gain a better understanding of how the nervous system develops . Research groups :: Siew-Lan Ang :: Regional and cell type specification of the forebrain and midbrain James Briscoe :: Specification of neuronal identity in the vertebrate neural tube Nobue Itasaki :: Neural patterning in vertebrate embryogenesis David Wilkinson :: Segmentation of the vertebrate nervous system	Information/Explanation
1190	Everyone should learn at least some basic first aid techniques . You never know when you might need them - you could be at home , at work , at school or on holiday . Whether it 's a minor situation or something more serious , first aid knowledge will give you the confidence to act . You could be the difference between life and death . Why should you learn first aid ? Gain the knowledge , skills and confidence to act in an emergency Be a resource for your community : we all know about the high risk emergency events we 're exposed to in the Territory . Whether it be your immediate family , people in your street or the broader community , having more people with first aid skills helps build a stronger and more resilient Territory community Stay up to date with correct treatments : Over time first aid treatments change and our memories fade so keeping up to date with your first aid certificates and refreshing your skills is vital Stay safe at work : Illness and injury can happen anywhere , anytime . With first aid knowledge you can be create a safe work environment and help meet your workplace's safety requirements Start a career pathway into the health profession : the first-hand experience you gain learning first aid and using your skills could help you decide if you want to pursue a career in the health profession . It also demonstrates your commitment to a career in the health profession when it comes time to apply for jobs Anyone can learn first aid : no matter what your background or skill level you can learn first aid . First aid is a skill for every Territorian . You could be the different between life and death .	Promotion
895	"DES AND MICK GO TRAINSPOTTING AND THEN LOOK FOR THE LOCH NESS MONSTER "" I wonder where Mick is today , "" said Des , who could not find him anywhere . So he went to the local railway station , as you do , to think of where he could possibly be . As it happened , Mick was at the railway station , train spotting . "" Look ! "" said Mick . "" There 's a train . Right , that 's enough of that . "" "" Oh good , "" said Des . "" Let 's go and look for the Loch Ness monster . "" "" At Caterham railway station ? "" said Mick . "" No , stupid ! "" said Des . "" At Loch Ness ! "" "" Silly me , "" sighed Mick sarcastically . "" All right , I 'll come on one condition . That Wayne and Clive and that lot do n't come as well . I want this to be a Greasy-less chapter . "" "" No , "" said Des . "" They 'll probably be there already . "" He went round and checked that no one else was going to Loch Ness . When he confirmed that all were to be staying in the environs of Caterham they drove up to Scotland in Des's Fiat 126 . Three weeks later , when they arrived , Des decided to try out his new Scottish accent . "" Och aye the noo , "" he said in a very South-East England accent . "" That 's very good , "" said Mick sarcastically . "" You 're getting very sarcastic these days , "" said Des . "" No ! I do n't believe you ! Me ? Sarcastic ? "" said Mick , sarcastically . Since it was evening and it was getting rather dark they decided to book into a hotel and then start scanning the loch for any monsters . "" Now just leave this to me , "" said Des as they entered the hotel . He rang the bell and a man in a kilt appeared from behind the reception desk . "" Och aye the noo !! "" he exclaimed in a very Scottish accent . "" Welcome to our wee bonnie hotel . My name is Douglas MacWhitehouse , the hotel manager . How may I help you ? "" Douglas MacWhitehouse seemed rather familiar to Mick . "" Have n't I seen you ... "" Des put his hand over Mick's mouth . "" We 're not going through all that again ! "" he exclaimed . He turned to Douglas . "" Och aye the noo , Mr MacWhitehouse , a very good evening to you . My name is Desmond MacWednesday and this is my wee sassenach companion Mick MacWoolley . "" Mick turned round and tried to pretend he did n't know Des . "" We would like a couple of wee rooms for the night , "" continued Desmond MacWednesday . "" Och aye the noo , that will be most possible , "" said the hotel manager , giving Des and Mick two keys . "" Now would you like a wee bit of food ? The dining room closes in ten minutes . "" "" Och aye the noo , "" said Des . "" That would be most kind . "" "" I 've never been so embarrassed , "" said Mick to Des as they entered the dining room . "" What about that time you mistook the mayor for the dustman ? "" Everyone else in the canteen looked at Mick and sniggered . Mick sighed . "" What 's on the menu then , "" said Des as they sat down . "" Haggis , haggis pie , roast haggis , haggis and chips , haggis and mash , haggis and haggis ... I somehow do n't feel quite so hungry after all , "" said Mick . "" No , neither do I , "" said Des . "" Let 's go to our rooms now and get some sleep . We 've got to be up early tomorrow morning to look for the wee monster . "" Des got up the following morning at 11.55 . Mick had already hired a boat and some monster-detecting equipment . "" Did we have to get up this early ? "" said Des wearily to Mick when they met up . "" There 's a lot of people out here . "" "" I know , everyone wants to look for the monster . "" "" I hope there 's enough room for us , "" said Des . "" Of course ! It 's gihugeous ! "" said Mick . "" Will there be enough time to search the whole loch ? "" asked Des . "" What ?! "" exclaimed Mick . "" That loch is big enough to fit the entire population of the world into it ! And room left over for the monster ! It 'd take years !! "" "" Hey , that 's given me a great idea ! Why do n't we get all the people in the world , then bring them here ... "" "" Des , just shut up and get in the boat , "" said Mick , getting in . "" Come on , get in ! . "" "" Erm , well ... there 's a monster out there you know , could be a bit dangerous . "" "" Are you a man , a mouse or a monster ? "" said Mick . "" Well ... "" said Des . He climbed into the boat and inevitably tipped it up , throwing Mick into the water . "" Aaaarghhhhhhh !!! I ca n't swim !!! "" he yelled . However , he had fallen on something . A monster rose up from the water , with Mick on top it . "" DES !!! DES !!! IT 'S THE MONSTER !!!! HELP !!!! "" yelled Mick . But Des had fainted . A man with a camera then came running up to them . "" You imbecile !! You 've ruined my film !! "" He led the monster to land and Mick slid off . "" It was only a plastic one , "" said Mick , heaving a huge sigh of relief . "" Oh , that 's all right then , "" said Des , immediately regaining consciousness . "" I think we 'll get a bigger boat , "" said Mick , "" and go somewhere else . "" "" And leave me to apologise to that man ! "" said Des . Soon afterwards Des and Mick were back on water in a boat , with Mick rowing and Des scanning the loch . But Des's equipment was not very helpful . "" I 'VE FOUND IT !!! IT 'S THE MONSTER !!! "" yelled Des . "" Oh not again , "" sighed Mick . "" You 're giving me a headache !! "" "" No , this time I 'm sure !! "" exclaimed Des . He peered into the loch and brought out a fish . "" Oh . "" "" That 's the sixty-eighth time ! "" said Mick . "" That thing goes off every time a fish swims past ! "" Des and Mick stayed on the boat for a few more hours and rowed far into the depths of the loch . By dusk Mick was getting worried and Des was getting hungry . "" I think we 've gone too far into the loch , "" said the observant Mick . "" We 're lost . "" "" Why did n't we bring any food ? "" moaned Des . "" We 're surrounded by food , "" said Mick , as the monster-detecting equipment went off yet again . "" Hey Mick , look over there , "" said Des . "" Look at all that bubbling ! It ca n't be a fish !! "" "" And it 's coming towards us !! "" exclaimed Mick . "" The monster 's going to get us !!! "" "" Get rowing !! "" exclaimed Des . Mick started rowing away from the bubbling like never before . "" It 's catching up with us !! "" exclaimed Des . "" Row faster !! "" "" I 'm rowing as fast as I can !! "" exclaimed Mick . "" I could with some help !! "" "" I ca n't look ! "" said Des , closing his eyes . Suddenly something grabbed the back of the boat . Des and Mick gasped . "" Well , it 's been nice knowing you , Mick , "" said Des . "" Erm , Des , look behind you , "" said Mick , who had stopped rowing . Des slowly opened his eyes and turned round . "" Oh , I do n't believe it . "" "" Hello ! "" greeted Wayne Coach , dressed in a wetsuit . "" What are you doing here ?! "" exclaimed Mick . "" Lookin ' for Nessie ! "" exclaimed Wayne . Then Mrs Greasy , Clive Kippers , Farmer Files and several pigs also rose up from under the water dressed in wetsuits . "" Hello ! "" they said in unison . Des and Mick groaned . "" We thought we 'd found it ! "" exclaimed Des . "" Clive looks a bit like a monster , "" said Mick . "" Look at those teeth . "" Clive grinned . "" I 'd rather not , "" said Des . "" Anyway , look , it 's getting dark ! How are we going to get back to land ! I 'm not really seaworthy . I think I 'm going to be sick ... "" "" We 'll give yer a lift ! "" exclaimed Wayne . "" Eh ? "" said Mick , as Des was busy doing what he had to do overboard . They looked as Farmer Files's Land Rover rose up from the water . "" Ooooh arrrrr !!! Oi 've converted i ' in ' o a boat !! "" They climbed into the Land Rover and Files drove them towards land . "" Oh dear , we 've left the boat behind , "" said Des , looking over his shoulder . "" Eh ? "" said Mick , looking behind him . "" I ca n't see it . "" Des looked back - and the boat had vanished . All they could see was a tremendous amount of bubbling , exactly where the boat had been . Des gasped , and fainted . "" Des ! Des ! Are you all right ?! "" said Mick . "" He 's loopy , "" said Clive . "" Leave him . At least now we should have a quiet ride home . """	Prose/Lyrical
154	"My journey to coming here today started in 1974 . That 's me with the funny gloves . I was 17 and going on a peace walk . What I did n't know though , was most of those people , standing there with me , were Moonies . ( Laughter ) And within a week I had come to believe that the second coming of Christ had occurred , that it was Sun Myung Moon , and that I had been specially chosen and prepared by God to be his disciple . Now as cool as that sounds , my family was not that thrilled with this . ( Laughter ) And they tried everything they could to get me out of there . There was an underground railroad of sorts that was going on during those years . Maybe some of you remember it . They were called deprogrammers . And after about five long years my family had me deprogrammed . And I then became a deprogrammer . I started going out on cases . And after about five years of doing [ deprogramming ] I was arrested for kidnapping . Most of the cases I went out on were called involuntary . What happened was that the family had to get their loved ones some safe place somehow . And so they took them to some safe place . And we would come in and talk to them , usually for about a week . And so after [ the arrest ] happened I decided it was a good time to turn my back on this work . And about 20 years went by . There was a burning question though that would not leave me . And that was , "" How did this happen to me ? "" And in fact , what did happen to my brain ? Because something did . And so I decided to write a book , a memoir , about this decade of my life . And toward the end of writing that book there was a documentary that came out . It was on Jonestown . And it had a chilling effect on me . These are the dead in Jonestown . About 900 people died that day . Most of them taking their own lives . Women gave poison to their babies , and watched foam come from their mouths as they died . The top picture is a group of Moonies that have been blessed by their messiah . Their mates were chosen for them . The bottom picture is Hitler youth . This is the leg of a suicide bomber . The thing I had to admit to myself , with great repulsion , was that I get it . I understand how this could happen . I understand how someone's brain , how someone's mind can come to the place where it makes sense , in fact it would be wrong , when your brain is working like that , not to try to save the world through genocide . And so what is this ? How does this work ? And how I 've come to view what happened to me is a viral memetic infection . For those of you who are n ' t familiar with memetics , a meme has been defined as an idea that replicates in the human brian and moves from brain to brain like a virus , much like a virus . The way a virus works is -- it can infect and do the most damage to someone who has a compromised immune system . In 1974 , I was young , I was naive , and I was pretty lost in my world . I was really idealistic . These easy ideas to complex questions are very appealing when you are emotionally vulnerable . What happens is that circular logic takes over . "" Moon is one with God . God is going to fix all the problems in the world . All I have to do is humbly follow . Because God is going to stop war and hunger -- all these things I wanted to do . All I have to do is humbly follow . Because after all , God is [ working through ] the messiah . He 's going to fix all this . "" It becomes impenetrable . And the most dangerous part of this is that is creates "" us "" and "" them , "" "" right "" and "" wrong , "" "" good "" and "" evil . "" And it makes anything possible . Makes anything rationalizable . And the thing is , though , if you looked at my brain during those years in the Moonies -- Neuroscience is expanding exponentially , as Ray Kurzweil said yesterday . Science is expanding . We 're beginning to look inside the brain . And so if you looked at my brain , or any brain that 's infected with a viral memetic infection like this , and compared it to anyone in this room , or anyone who uses critical thinking on a regular basis , I am convinced it would look very , very different . And that , strange as it may sound , gives me hope . And the reason that gives me hope is that the first thing is to admit that we have a problem . But it 's a human problem . It 's a scientific problem , if you will . It happens in the human brain . There is no evil force out there to get us . And so this is something that , through research and education , I believe that we can solve . And so the first step is to realize that we can do this together , and that there is no "" us "" and "" them . "" Thank you very much . ( Applause ) </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
479	"Welcome to the Gamecube ( hardware ) Cheat page on Cheat Genius . We strive to get as many Gamecube ( hardware ) Cheats , Cheat Codes , Hints and Tips for the Gamecube as possible !!! If you do not see any cheats below , than we must not be able to find any cheats for this game and we should have some asap !! We last found cheats for Gamecube ( hardware ) on 10 / 02 / 05 . Ads ( Cheats Below ) Click Here for more Gamecube ( hardware ) Cheats Click Here for more Gamecube ( hardware ) Cheats Ads ( Cheats Below ) Alternate starting sounds : Cheats Hold Z while the Gamecube logo appears to hear new sounds . Hold Z then about one second later hold A to hear another sound . Insert four controllers then hold Z on each of them while the Gamecube logo appears to hear different sounds . Change screen refresh rate : Cheats Hold B while powering on the system until the message "" Would you like to switch to 50hz mode ? "" appears . This allows you to switch the screen refresh to match that of PAL games . If playing on a PAL system , the message will be "" Would you like to switch to 60hz mode ? "" , allowing the screen refresh to match that of NTSC games . Control starting logo : Cheats Hold A while the cube bounces down to form the "" G "" logo to spin it . Set system time and options : Cheats Hold A while powering on the system . Alternately , hold A while the cube rolls around the screen . Alternately , turn on the Gamecube without a disc . Wait until the opening sequence is over and you will be able to set the time and date on the system , delete memory files ( if there is a memory card inserted ) , and set the sound and screen position ."	Instruction
1684	"Courtesy of the Victoria and Albert Museum , London You might want to stash the rhinestones . The jewels on this list are going to give the rocks that you 've got some serious inferiority complexes . Grab a loupe and step inside . But do n't even think about pocketing anything ... you will be searched at the end of the tour . And before you start assembling your rappelling gear in preparation for a midnight heist , know that the malediction placed on these beauties makes the Hope Diamond look like a lucky charm . Keep those grubby paws to yourself ! Wela49 Aquamarines , which range from cerulean to greenish-blue , tend to have greater clarity than the related emeralds . Its name is Latin for "" sea water . "" Greek and Roman sailors believed that the limpid stones would bring them luck . Dom Pedro , the largest cut aquamarine , is 2 feet tall and weighs over 10,000 carats . It is displayed at the Smithsonian . Lee Boltin Topaz crystals can grow to massive proportions . The nearly 23 , 000-carat American Golden topaz , also at the Smithsonian , is among the world's largest faceted gems . At the size of a small watermelon , it 's almost comically huge . Even Joan Collins could n't pull off that monster . Photograph by sulla55 . Houston Museum of Natural Science , 28.2006 Opals are formed over many centuries by the deposition of silica dissolved in water . Their mysterious , almost holographic refraction of light is thought to be caused by differences in the size of the spheres of silica that form them . Opal can replace other substances , even wood and bone , which leads to the formation of opal fossils . Los Angeles County Museum of Art , Nasli and Alice Heeramaneck Collection , Museum Associates Purchase ( M. 71 . 1 . 35a-b ) , www.lacma.org As if seeing all of these gorgeous baubles arrayed temptingly before you were n't enough of a knife to the heart , here 's an actual knife . With a jeweled handle , of course . It is made of nephrite , one of the two gemstones referred to as jade . The other is jadeite , which is more valuable ."	Promotion
826	Primary Care Support Inventures can provide a wide range of services and courses to support GP practices and other primary care organisations . For more information please see our list of available literature below ... Services Business Viability & Development Audit ( 87KB ) Primary Care Premises Development ( 157KB ) Business Planning & Strategic Development ( 84KB ) Courses Disaster Recovery Planning & Business Continuity Planning ( 85KB ) Options for Development - are new or existing premises fit for purpose ? ( 94KB ) An Introduction to Primary Care Practice Management ( 115KB ) Risk Management in Primary Care ( 112KB ) Dealing with Difficult or Aggressive People ( 82KB ) Building and Managing Teams ( 127KB ) Ethnic Awareness ( 113KB ) How to Implement an Effective Patient Participation Group ( 118KB ) Identifying Training and Development Needs ( 117KB ) Finding your way around the NHS Gridlock ( 127KB ) Training & Development Directory ( 87KB ) Services Directory ( 81KB ) Our directory of services and available training courses is growing all the time , and if you can not find what you are looking for please let us know . If you would like more information please contact either paul.williams@inventures.co.uk ( 07760 272579 ) or	Promotion
410	"Villagers in Shipley think someone has been stealing their water and spiriting it away in dawn raids . Officials believe gallons of the local supply have been surreptitiously syphoned from a hydrant into a road tanker . Yorkshire Water has launched an investigation after residents complained about disruption to supplies . The problem , in the Nab Wood area , is believed to have been caused by someone tapping into the mains without permission , says a councillor . Water bosses have enlisted the help of the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency in Swansea in an attempt to track down a vehicle which is thought to be linked to the problem . A spokesman for Yorkshire Water said : "" All businesses which require water in the street - such as street cleaners - need to hold a valid standpipe licence to take water without disrupting supplies to nearby premises . "" The licence ensures that only standpipes of the correct size can be used . "" We are aware of the issue in the Nab Wood area and have been making investigations to trace the person responsible for reducing the water supply to customers . "" We are currently awaiting details of the vehicle from the DVLA to help us in our investigations . "" We would like to assure customers in the area that we are doing everything possible to trace this vehicle . "" Councillor Martin Love ( Green , Shipley ) said : "" People have approached me to tell me about the problem , which was a bit of a mystery for a while . "" A lot of residents in Nab Wood found their water pressure was dropping every morning . It was happening at 7 . 30am every day . "" There is a theory someone with a tanker has been taking water from a hydrant . "" It went on for quite a few days and nobody was sure where the problem was coming from . "" I think it caused a quite a lot of disruption to people in that area . I have spoken to Yorkshire Water and they say they are onto it . "" Yorkshire Water said no problems had been reported in Nab Wood in recent days . It is believed the vehicle might have left the area and could now be operating elsewhere . Archive Home From the archive http://www.thisisbradford.co.uk © Newsquest Media Group 2005"	News
1189	Go confidently in the direction of your dreams ! Live the life you 've imagined . As you simplify your life , the laws of the universe will be simpler .	Promotion
1091	"Quantum spectral analysis : frequency at time Mario Mastriani Quantum No Channel LLC , Turnberry Plaza , Suite 801 , 2875 Northeast 191 St. , Aventura , FL 33180 , USA mario@qunoch.com Abstract A quantum time-dependent spectrum analysis , or simply , quantum spectral analysis ( QuSA ) is presented in this work , and it 's based on Schrödinger equation , which is a partial differential equation that describes how the quantum state of a non-relativistic physical system changes with time . In classic world is named frequency at time ( FAT ) , which is presented here in opposition and as a complement of traditional spectral analysis frequency-dependent based on Fourier theory . Besides , FAT is a metric , which assesses the impact of the flanks of a signal on its frequency spectrum , which is not taken into account by Fourier theory and even less in real time . Even more , and unlike all derived tools from Fourier Theory ( i.e. , continuous , discrete , fast , short-time , fractional and quantum Fourier Transform , as well as , Gabor ) FAT has the following advantages : a ) compact support with excellent energy output treatment , b ) low computational cost , O ( N ) for signals and O ( N2 ) for images , c ) it does n't have phase uncertainties ( indeterminate phase for magnitude = 0 ) as Discrete and Fast Fourier Transform ( DFT , FFT , respectively ) , d ) among others . In fact , FAT constitutes one side of a triangle ( which from now on is closed ) and it consists of the original signal in time , spectral analysis based on Fourier Theory and FAT . Thus a toolbox is completed , which it is essential for all applications of Digital Signal Processing ( DSP ) and Digital Image Processing ( DIP ) ; and , even , in the latter , FAT allows edge detection ( which is called flank detection in case of signals ) , denoising , despeckling , compression , and superresolution of still images . Such applications include signals intelligence and imagery intelligence . On the other hand , we will present other DIP tools , which are also derived from the Schrödinger equation . Besides , we discuss several examples for spectral analysis , edge detection , denoising , despeckling , compression and superresolution in a set of experimental results in an important section on Applications and Simulations , respectively . Finally , we finish this work with special section dedicated to Conclusions . Keywords Compression • Denoising • Despeckling • Digital Signal and Image Processing • Edge Detection • Fourier Theory • Imagery Intelligence • Quantum Information Processing • Schrödinger equation • Signals Intelligence • Spectral Analysis • Superresolution of still images • Wavelets . 1 Introduction Quantum computation and quantum information is the study of the information processing tasks that can be accomplished using quantum mechanical systems . Like many simple but profound ideas it was a long time before anybody thought of doing information processing using quantum mechanical systems [ 1 ] . Quantum computation is the field that investigates the computational power and other properties of computers based on quantum-mechanical principles . An important objective is to find quantum algorithms that are significantly faster than any classical algorithm solving the same problem . The field started in the early 1980s with suggestions for analog quantum computers by Paul Benioff [ 2 ] and Richard Feynman [ 3 , 4 ] , and reached more digital ground when in 1985 David Deutsch defined the universal quantum Turing machine [ 5 ] . The following years saw only sparse activity , notably the development of the first algorithms by Deutsch and Jozsa [ 6 ] and by Simon [ 7 ] , and the development of quantum complexity theory by Bernstein and Vazirani [ 8 ] . However , interest in the field increased tremendously after Peter Shor's very surprising discovery of efficient quantum algorithms ( or simulations on a quantum computer ) for the problems of integer factorization and discrete logarithms in 1994 [ 9 ] . Quantum Information Processing ( QuIn ) - The main concepts related to Quantum Information Processing may be grouped in the next topics : quantum bit ( qubit , which is the elemental quantum information unity ) , Bloch's Sphere ( geometric environment for qubit representation ) , Hilbert's Space ( which generalizes the notion of Euclidean space ) , Schrödinger's Equation ( which is a partial differential equation that describes how the quantum state of a physical system changes with time . ) , Unitary Operators , Quantum Circuits ( in quantum information theory , a quantum circuit is a model for quantum computation in which a computation is a sequence of quantum gates , which are reversible transformations on a quantum mechanical analog of an n-bit register . This analogous structure is referred to as an n-qubit register . ) , Quantum Gates ( in quantum computing and specifically the quantum circuit model of computation , a quantum gate or quantum logic gate is a basic quantum circuit operating on a small number of qubits ) , and Quantum Algorithms ( in quantum computing , a quantum algorithm is an algorithm which runs on a realistic model of quantum computation , the most commonly used model being the quantum circuit model of computation ) [ 1 , 10-12 ] . Nowadays , other concepts complement our knowledge about QuIn , they are : Quantum Signal Processing ( QuSP ) - The main idea is to take a classical signal , sample it , quantify it ( for example , between 0 and 255 ) , use a classical-to-quantum interface , give an internal representation to that signal , make a processing to that quantum signal ( denoising , compression , among others ) , measure the result , use a quantum-to-classical interface and subsequently detect the classical outcome signal . Interestingly , and as will be seen later , the quantum image processing has aroused more interest than QuSP . In the words of its creator : "" many new classes of signal processing algorithms have been developed by emulating the behavior of physical systems . There are also many examples in the signal processing literature in which new classes of algorithms have been developed by artificially imposing physical constraints on implementations that are not inherently subject to these constraints "" . Therefore , Quantum Signal Processing ( QuSP ) is a signal processing framework [ 13 , 14 ] that is aimed at developing new or modifying existing signal processing algorithms by borrowing from the principles of quantum mechanics and some of its interesting axioms and constraints . However , in contrast to such fields as quantum computing and quantum information theory , it does not inherently depend on the physics associated with quantum mechanics . Consequently , in developing the QuSP framework we are free to impose quantum mechanical constraints that we find useful and to avoid those that are not . This framework provides a unifying conceptual structure for a variety of traditional processing techniques and a precise mathematical setting for developing generalizations and extensions of algorithms , leading to a potentially useful paradigm for signal processing with applications in areas including frame theory , quantization and sampling methods , detection , parameter estimation , covariance shaping , and multiuser wireless communication systems . "" The truth is that to date , papers on this discipline are less than half a dozen , and its practical use is practically nil . Moreover , although it is an interesting idea , developed so far , does not withstand further comment . Quantum Image Processing ( QuIP ) - it is a young discipline and it is in training now , however , it 's much more developed than QuSP . QuIP starts in 1997 . That year , Vlasov proposed a method of using quantum computation to recognize so-called orthogonal images [ 15 ] . Five years later , in 2002 , Schutzhold described a quantum algorithm that searches specific patterns in binary images [ 16 ] . A year later , in October 2003 , Beach , Lomont , and Cohen from Cybernet Systems Corporation , ( an organization with a close cooperative relationship with the US Defense Department ) demonstrated the possibility that quantum algorithms ( such as Grover's algorithm ) can be used in image processing . In that paper , they describe a method which uses a quantum algorithm to detect the posture of certain targets . Their study implies that quantum image processing may , in future , play a valuable role during wartime [ 17 ] . Later , we can found the works of Venegas-Andraca [ 18 ] , where he proposes quantum image representations such as Qubit Lattice [ 19 , 20 ] ; in fact , this is the first doctoral thesis in the specialty , The history continues with the quantum image representation via the Real Ket [ 21 ] of Latorre Sentís , with a special interest in image compression in a quantum context . A new stage begins with the proposal of Le et al. [ 22 ] , for a flexible representation of quantum images to provide a representation for images on quantum computers in the form of a normalized state which captures information about colors and their corresponding positions in the images . History continues up to date by different authors and their innovative internal representation techniques of the image [ 23-44 ] . Very similar to the case of QuSP , the idea in back of QuIP is to take a classic image ( captured by a digital camera or photon counter ) and place it in a quantum machine through a classical-to-quantum interface , give some internal representation to the image using the procedures mentioned above , perform processing on it ( denoising , compression , among others ) , measure the results , restore the image through another interface but this time quantum-classical , y ready . The contribution of a quantum machine over a classic machine when it comes to process images it is that the former has much more power of processing . This last advantage can handle images and algorithms of a high computational cost , which would be unmanageable in a classic machine in a practical sense . The problem of this discipline lies in its genetic , given that QuIP is the daughter of Quantum Information Processing and Digital Image Processing , thus , we fall into the old dilemma of teaching , i.e. : to teach Latin to Peter , we should know more about Latin and more about Peter ? The answer is simple : we should know very well of both , but the mission becomes impossible . In other words , what is acceptable in Quantum Information Processing , and ( at the same time ) inadmissible in Digital Image Processing ? The mentioned problem begins with the quantum measurement , then , if after processing the image within the quantum computer , we want to retrieve the result by tomography of quantum states , we will encounter a serious obstacle , this is : if we make a tomography of quantum states in Quantum Information Processing ( even , this can be extended to any method of quantum measurement after the tomography ) with an error of 6 % in our knowledge of the state , this constitutes an excellent measure of such state , but on the other hand , and this time from the standpoint of Digital Image Processing [ 45-48 ] , an error of 6 % in each pixel of the outcome image constitutes a disaster , since this error becomes unmanageable and exaggerated noise . So overwhelming is the aforementioned disaster that the recovered image loses its visual intelligibility , i.e. , its look and feel , and morphology , due to the destruction of edges and textures . This speaks clearly ( and for this purpose , one need only read the papers of QuIP cited above ) that these works are based on computer simulations in classical machines , exclusively ( in most cases in MATLAB ® [ 49 ] ) , and do not represent test in a laboratory of Quantum Physics . In fact , if these field trials were held , the result would be the aforementioned . We just have to go to the lab and try with a single pixel of an image , then extrapolate the results to the entire image and therefore the inconvenience will be explicit . On the other hand , today there are obvious difficulties to treat a full image inside a quantum machine , however , there is no difficulty for a single pixel , since that pixel represents a single qubit , and this can be tested in any laboratory in the world , without problems . Therefore , there are no excuses . Definitely , the problem lies in the hostile relationship between the internal representation of the image ( inside quantum machine ) , the outcome measurement , and the recovery of the image outside of quantum machine . Therefore , the only technique of QuIP that survives is QuBoIP [ 50 ] . This is because it works with CBS , exclusively , and the quantum measurement does not affect the value of states . However , it is important to clarify that both , i.e. , traditional techniques QuIP and QuBoIP share a common enemy , and this is the decoherence [ 1 , 50 ] . Quantum Cryptography - Since most of current classical cryptography is based on the assumption that these two problems are computationally hard , the ability to actually build and use a quantum computer would allow us to break most current classical cryptographic systems , notably the Rivest , Shamir y Adleman ( RSA ) system [ 51 , 52 ] . In contrast , a quantum form of cryptography due to Bennett and Brassard [ 53 ] is unbreakable even for quantum computers . Besides , Quantum cryptography is the synthesis of quantum mechanics with the art of code-making ( cryptography ) [ 54 ] . The idea was first conceived in an unpublished manuscript written by Stephen Wiesner around 1970 [ 55 ] . However , the subject received little attention until its resurrection by a classic paper published by Bennett and Brassard in 1984 [ 53 ] . The goal of quantum cryptography is to perform tasks that are impossible or intractable with conventional cryptography . Quantum cryptography makes use of the subtle properties of quantum mechanics such as the quantum no-cloning theorem and the Heisenberg uncertainty principle . Unlike conventional cryptography , whose security is often based on unproven computational assumptions , quantum cryptography has an important advantage in that its security is often based on the laws of physics . Thus far , proposed applications of quantum cryptography include quantum key distribution ( abbreviated QKD ) , quantum bit commitment and quantum coin tossing . These applications have varying degrees of success . The most successful and important application – QKD – has been proven to be unconditionally secure . Moreover , experimental QKD has now been performed over hundreds of kilometers over both standard commercial telecom optical fibers and open-air . In fact , commercial QKD systems are currently available on the market . On a wider context , quantum cryptography is a branch of quantum information processing , which includes quantum computing , quantum measurements , and quantum teleportation . Among all branches , quantum cryptography is the branch that is closest to real-life applications . Therefore , it can be a concrete avenue for the demonstrations of concepts in quantum information processing . On a more fundamental level , quantum cryptography is deeply related to the foundations of quantum mechanics , particularly the testing of Bellinequalities and the detection efficiency loophole . On a technological level , quantum cryptography is related to technologies such as single-photon measurements and detection and single-photon sources . Quantum Technology - Quantum technology is a new field of physics and engineering , which transitions some of the stranger features of quantum mechanics , especially quantum entanglement and most recently quantum tunneling , into practical applications such as quantum computing , quantum cryptography , quantum simulation , quantum metrology , quantum sensing , and quantum imaging . The field of quantum technology was first outlined in a 1997 book by Gerard J. Milburn [ 56 ] , which was then followed by a 2003 article by Jonathan P. Dowling and Gerard J. Milburn [ 57 , 58 ] , as well as a 2003 article by David Deutsch [ 59 ] . The field of quantum technology has benefited immensely from the influx of new ideas from the field of quantum information processing , particularly quantum computing . Disparate areas of quantum physics , such as quantum optics , atom optics , quantum electronics , and quantum nanomechanical devices , have been unified under the search for a quantum computer and given a common language , that of quantum information theory . In actuality , the most outstanding works in this area belong to Cappelaro's group at MIT [ 60-63 ] . Quantum Fourier Transform ( QuFT ) - In quantum computing , the QuFT is a linear transformation on quantum bits and is the quantum analogue of the discrete Fourier transform . The QuFT is a part of many quantum algorithms , notably Shor's algorithm for factoring and computing the discrete logarithm , the quantum phase estimation algorithm for estimating the eigenvalues of a unitary operator , and algorithms for the hidden subgroup problem . The QuFT can be performed efficiently on a quantum computer , with a particular decomposition into a product of simpler unitary matrices . Using a simple decomposition , the discrete Fourier transform can be implemented as a quantum circuit consisting of only O ( n2 ) Hadamard gates and controlled phase shift gates , where n is the number of qubits [ 1 ] . This can be compared with the classical discrete Fourier transform , which takes O ( 2n2 ) gates ( where n is the number of bits ) , which is exponentially more than O ( n2 ) . However , the quantum Fourier transform acts on a quantum state , whereas the classical Fourier transform acts on a vector , so not every task that uses the classical Fourier transform can take advantage of this exponential speedup . The best QuFT algorithms known today require only O ( n log n ) gates to achieve an efficient approximation [ 64 ] . Quantum Information Theory ( QuIT ) - QuIT is motivated by the study of communications channels , but it has a much wider domain of application , and it is a thought-provoking challenge to capture in a verbal nutshell the goals of the field . QuIT is fundamentally richer than classical information theory , because quantum mechanics includes so many more elementary classes of static and dynamic resources – not only does it support all the familiar classical types , but there are entirely new classes such as the static resource of entanglement to make life even more interesting than it is classically [ 1 ] . QuIT deals with four main topics [ 65 ] : - Transmission of classical information over quantum channels . - The tradeoff between acquisition of information about a quantum state and disturbance of the state . - Quantifying quantum entanglement . - Transmission of quantum information over quantum channels . For which , it involves four components : - Quantum Entropy [ 1 ] : In QuIT , we can talk of : quantum relative entropy , the von Neumann entropy , the joint quantum entropy , and the conditional quantum entropy , - Quantum Channel [ 66 ] , - Quantum Cryptography ( aforementioned ) , and - Quantum Compression [ 1 , 67-71 ] . Finally , this work is organized as follows : Prolegomenous to QuSA are outlined in Section 2 , where , we present the follow concepts : continuous , discrete , fast , short-time ( including Gabor transform ) , and fractional Fourier transform , wavelets and multirresolution , smoothing of coefficients in wavelet domain in 1D and 2D , superresolution with special emphasis to still images , and edge detection . In Section 3 , we show the proposed new spectral methods with its consequences . Section 4 deal with the applications of the different versions of FAT in signal and image processing , i.e. , denoising , compression , edge detection , superresolution , among others . Besides , in this section , we show same numerical and graphic examples of spectral analysis for signals and images , with edge detection , denoising , despeckling , and compression of signals and images too ; all in a set of experimental results . By last , Section 5 provides conclusions and a proposal for future works . 2 Prolegomenous to QuSA In this section , we discuss the tools , which are needs to understand the full extent to QuSA . These tools are : - Continuous , Discrete ( DFT ) , Fast ( FFT ) , Fractional ( FRFT ) , Short-Time Fourier Transform ( STFT ) , and Gabor transform ( GT ) - Wavelets ( denoising / despeckling and compression ) in general and Haar basis in particular - Smoothing of coefficients in wavelet domain in 1D ( signals ) and 2D ( images ) - Superresolution in general , and for still images in particular - Edge detection At the end of this section it should be clear : what is the ubiquity of QuSA in the context of a much larger , modern and full spectral analysis . On the other hand , this section will allow us to better understand the role QuSA as the origin of several tools used today in DSP and DIP . Finally , it will be clear why we say that QuSA completes a set of tools to date incomplete . 2.1 DFT , FFT , STFT , and GT From all existing versions of the Fourier transform [ 72-79 ] , that is to say , continuous-time , discrete , fractional , short-time ( and a particular case of it due to Gabor ) , and quantum , not forgetting those versions based on the cosine [ 74-79 ] - in this section - we discuss the main characteristics of classical versions of Fourier transforms ( including Gabor , and excluding cosine versions ) , their strengths and weaknesses , and as the two do not quite fill a gap in the field of spectral analysis , and in fact , any other tool it has done to date . 2.1.1 Fourier transform The Fourier transform decomposes a function of time ( a signal ) into the frequencies that make it up , similarly to how a musical chord can be expressed as the amplitude ( or loudness ) of its constituent notes . The Fourier transform of a function of time itself is a complex-valued function of frequency , whose absolute value represents the amount of that frequency present in the original function , and whose complex argument is the phase offset of the basic sinusoid in that frequency . The Fourier transform is called the frequency domain representation of the original signal . The term Fourier transform refers to both the frequency domain representation and the mathematical operation that associates the frequency domain representation to a function of time . The Fourier transform is not limited to functions of time , but in order to have a unified language , the domain of the original function is commonly referred to as the time domain . For many functions of practical interest one can define an operation that reverses this : the inverse Fourier transformation , also called Fourier synthesis , of a frequency domain representation combines the contributions of all the different frequencies to recover the original function of time [ 72 ] . Linear operations performed in one domain ( time or frequency ) have corresponding operations in the other domain , which are sometimes easier to perform . The operation of differentiation in the time domain corresponds to multiplication by the frequency , so some differential equations are easier to analyze in the frequency domain . Also , convolution in the time domain corresponds to ordinary multiplication in the frequency domain . Concretely , this means that any linear time-invariant system , such as a filter applied to a signal , can be expressed relatively simply as an operation on frequencies . After performing the desired operations , transformation of the result can be made back to the time domain . Harmonic analysis is the systematic study of the relationship between the frequency and time domains , including the kinds of functions or operations that are "" simpler "" in one or the other , and has deep connections to almost all areas of modern mathematics [ 72 ] . Functions that are localized in the time domain have Fourier transforms that are spread out across the frequency domain and vice versa , a phenomenon known as the uncertainty principle . The critical case for this principle is the Gaussian function , of substantial importance in probability theory and statistics as well as in the study of physical phenomena exhibiting normal distribution ( e.g. , diffusion ) . The Fourier transform of a Gaussian function is another Gaussian function . Joseph Fourier introduced the transform in his study of heat transfer , where Gaussian functions appear as solutions of the heat equation [ 72 ] . The Fourier transform can be formally defined as an improper Riemann integral , making it an integral transform , although this definition is not suitable for many applications requiring a more sophisticated integration theory . For example , many relatively simple applications use the Dirac delta function , which can be treated formally as if it were a function , but the justification requires a mathematically more sophisticated viewpoint . The Fourier transform can also be generalized to functions of several variables on Euclidean space , sending a function of 3-dimensional space to a function of 3-dimensional momentum ( or a function of space and time to a function of 4-momentum ) . This idea makes the spatial Fourier transform very natural in the study of waves , as well as in quantum mechanics , where it is important to be able to represent wave solutions as functions of either space or momentum and sometimes both . In general , functions to which Fourier methods are applicable are complex-valued , and possibly vector-valued . Still further generalization is possible to functions on groups , which , besides the original Fourier transform on R or Rn ( viewed as groups under addition ) , notably includes the discrete-time Fourier transform ( DTFT , group = Z ) , the discrete Fourier transform ( DFT , group = Z mod N ) and the Fourier series or circular Fourier transform ( group = S1 , the unit circle ≈ closed finite interval with endpoints identified ) . The latter is routinely employed to handle periodic functions . The Fast Fourier transform ( FFT ) is an algorithm for computing the DFT [ 72 ] . There are several common conventions ( see , [ 72 ] ) for defining the Fourier transform f of an integrable function f : . In this paper , we will use the following definition : f f x e 2 ix dx , for any real number ξ . When the independent variable x represents time ( with SI unit of seconds ) , the transform variable ξ represents frequency ( in hertz ) . Under suitable conditions f , is determined by f via the inverse transform : f x f e2 ix d , for any real number x . The statement that f can be reconstructed from f is known as the Fourier inversion theorem , and was first introduced in Fourier's Analytical Theory of Heat , although what would be considered a proof by modern standards was not given until much later . The functions f and f often are referred to as a Fourier integral pair or Fourier transform pair [ 72 ] . For other common conventions and notations , including using the angular frequency ω instead of the frequency ξ , see [ 72 ] . The Fourier transform on Euclidean space is treated separately , in which the variable x often represents position and ξ momentum . Notes : - In practice , the continuous-time version of the cosine transform is not used . Therefore , we will omit in this work . - The properties of the Fourier transform will see in the next subsection , that is , for Discrete Fourier Transform ( DFT ) , although only the most relevant in terms of this work . - We will not develop here the two-dimensional version of the Fourier transform , if we instead for subsequent versions , using the property known as separability [ 74-79 ] . - Any extension on the Fourier transform shown in [ 72 , 73 ] . 2.1.2 DFT In mathematics , the discrete Fourier transform ( DFT ) converts a finite list of equally spaced samples of a function into the list of coefficients of a finite combination of complex sinusoids , ordered by their frequencies , that has those same sample values . It can be said to convert the sampled function from its original domain ( often time or position along a line ) to the frequency domain [ 74 ] . The input samples are complex numbers ( in practice , usually real numbers ) , and the output coefficients are complex as well . The frequencies of the output sinusoids are integer multiples of a fundamental frequency , whose corresponding period is the length of the sampling interval . The combination of sinusoids obtained through the DFT is therefore periodic with that same period . The DFT differs from the discrete-time Fourier transform ( DTFT ) in that its input and output sequences are both finite ; it is therefore said to be the Fourier analysis of finite-domain ( or periodic ) discrete-time functions [ 74 ] . The DFT is the most important discrete transform , used to perform Fourier analysis in many practical applications . In digital signal processing , the function is any quantity or signal that varies over time , such as the pressure of a sound wave , a radio signal , or daily temperature readings , sampled over a finite time interval ( often defined by a window function ) . In image processing , the samples can be the values of pixels along a row or column of a raster image . The DFT is also used to efficiently solve partial differential equations , and to perform other operations such as convolutions or multiplying large integers [ 74 ] . Since it deals with a finite amount of data , it can be implemented in computers by numerical algorithms or even dedicated hardware . These implementations usually employ efficient fast Fourier transform ( FFT ) algorithms ; so much so that the terms "" FFT "" and "" DFT "" are often used interchangeably . Prior to its current usage , the "" FFT "" initialism may have also been used for the ambiguous term "" finite Fourier transform "" [ 74 ] . The sequence of N complex numbers x0 , x1 , ... , xN 1 is transformed into an N-periodic sequence of complex numbers : N 1 Xk x n 0 n . e 2 ikn / N , k integers ( 1 ) Each X k is a complex number that encodes both amplitude and phase of a sinusoidal component of function xn . The sinusoid's frequency is k cycles per N samples . Its amplitude and phase are : X k / N Re X k Im X k / N 2 2 ( 2 ) X arg X k atan2 Im X k , Re X k iln k , Xk where atan2 is the two-argument form of the arctan function . Assuming periodicity ( see Periodicity in [ 74 ] ) , the customary domain of k actually computed is [ 0 , N-1 ] . That is always the case when the DFT is implemented via the Fast Fourier transform algorithm . But other common domains are [ - N / 2 , N / 2-1 ] ( N even ) and [ - ( N-1 ) / 2 , ( N-1 ) / 2 ] ( N odd ) , as when the left and right halves of an FFT output sequence are swapped . From all its properties , the most important for this paper are the following [ 74-79 ] : The unitary DFT - Another way of looking at the DFT is to note that in the above discussion , the DFT can be expressed as a Vandermonde matrix , introduced by Sylvester in 1867 , N00 N01 10 N11 F N N N 10 N N 11 N0 N 1 N1 N 1 N N 1 N 1 ( 3 ) where N e2 i / N ( 4 ) is a primitive Nth root of unity called twiddle factor . While for the case of discrete cosine transform ( DCT ) , we have : N cos 2 / N The inverse transform is then given by the inverse of the above matrix , ( 5 ) F1 1 * F N ( 6 ) For unitary normalization , we use a constant like 1 / N , then , the DFT becomes a unitary transformation , defined by a unitary matrix : U F / N U 1 U * ( 7 ) det U 1 where det ( • ) is the determinant function of ( • ) , and ( • ) * means conjugate transpose of ( • ) . All this shows that the DFT is the product of a matrix by a vector , essentially , as follows : 00 N01 X 0 N X 10 11 N 1 N X N 1 N N 10 N N 11 N0 N 1 x0 N1 N 1 x1 N N 1 N 1 xN 1 ( 8 ) No Compact Support – Based on Eq. ( 8 ) , we can see that each element X k of output vector results from multiplying the kth row of the matrix by the complete input vector , that is to say , each element X k of output vector contains every element of the input vector . A direct consequence of this is that DFT scatters the energy to its output , in other words , DFT has a disastrous treatment of the output energy . Therefore , no compact support is equivalent to : - DFT has a bad treatment of energy at the output - DFT in not a time-varying transform , but frequency-varying transform Time-domain vs frequency-domain measurements – As we can see in Fig. 1 , thanks to DFT we have a new perspective regarding to signals measurement , i.e. , the spectral viewing [ 78 , 79 ] . Fig. 1 Time domain vs frequency domain measurements . Both point of view allow us to make a nearly complete analysis of the main characteristics of the signal [ 7479 ] . As we can see in Eq. ( 8 ) , DFT consists in a product between a complex matrix by a real vector ( signal ) . This gives us a vector output also complex [ 78 , 79 ] . Therefore , for practical reasons , it is more useful to use the Power Spectral Density ( PSD ) [ 74-79 ] . For example , in MATLAB ® , we have f = 10 ; overSampRate = 30 ; fs = overSampRate * f ; phase = 1 / 3 * pi ; nCyl = 5 ; t = 0 : 1 / fs : nCyl * 1 / f ; x = sin ( 2 * pi * f * t + phase ) ; L = length ( x ) ; NFFT = 1024 ; X = fftshift ( fft ( x , NFFT )) ; PSD = X. * conj ( X ) / ( NFFT * L ) ; fVals = fs * ( 0 : NFFT / 2-1 ) / NFFT ; % frequency of sine wave % oversampling rate % sampling frequency % desired phase shift in radians % to generate five cycles of sine wave % time base % replace with cos if a cosine wave is desired % length of sine wave % number of considered FFT points % application of DFT ( for practical reasons FFT , see next subsection ) % Power of each frequency components % deleting negative frequencies If we rewrite Eq. ( 8 ) , we will have X Fx ( In MATLAB ® code , X = fftshift ( fft ( x , NFFT )) ; ) ( 9 ) where X is the output vector ( frequency domain ) , F is the DFT matrix ( see Eq. 3 ) , and x is the input vector ( time domain ) , then PSD X. conj X NFFT L ( In MATLAB ® code , PSD = X. * conj ( X ) / ( NFFT * L ) ; ) ( 10 ) In Eq. ( 10 ) , "" . "" means infixed version of Hadamard's product of vectors [ 80 ] , e.g. , if we have two vectors A a0 , ... , aN 1 and B b0 , ... , bN 1 , then A. B a0 b0 , a1 b1 , ... , aN 1 bN 1 , while conj ( • ) means complex conjugate of ( • ) . In DSP , some authors work with the square root of PSD [ 74-77 ] , and others - on the contrary - with the modulus ( or absolute value ) of X [ 78 , 79 ] , directly . Spectral analysis - When the DFT is used for signal spectral analysis , the xn sequence usually represents a finite set of uniformly spaced time-samples of some signal x ( t ) , where t represents time . The conversion from continuous time to samples ( discrete-time ) changes the underlying Fourier transform of x ( t ) into a discrete-time Fourier transform ( DTFT ) , which generally entails a type of distortion called aliasing . Choice of an appropriate sample-rate ( see Nyquist rate ) is the key to minimizing that distortion . Similarly , the conversion from a very long ( or infinite ) sequence to a manageable size entails a type of distortion called leakage , which is manifested as a loss of detail ( a.k.a. resolution ) in the DTFT . Choice of an appropriate subsequence length is the primary key to minimizing that effect . When the available data ( and time to process it ) is more than the amount needed to attain the desired frequency resolution , a standard technique is to perform multiple DFTs , for example to create a spectrogram . If the desired result is a power spectrum and noise or randomness is present in the data , averaging the magnitude components of the multiple DFTs is a useful procedure to reduce the variance of the spectrum ( also called a periodogram in this context ) ; two examples of such techniques are the Welch method and the Bartlett method ; the general subject of estimating the power spectrum of a noisy signal is called spectral estimation . A final source of distortion ( or perhaps illusion ) is the DFT itself , because it is just a discrete sampling of the DTFT , which is a function of a continuous frequency domain . That can be mitigated by increasing the resolution of the DFT . That procedure is illustrated at sampling the DTFT [ 78 , 79 ] . - The procedure is sometimes referred to as zero-padding , which is a particular implementation used in conjunction with the fast Fourier transform ( FFT ) algorithm . The inefficiency of performing multiplications and additions with zero-valued samples is more than offset by the inherent efficiency of the FFT . - As already noted , leakage imposes a limit on the inherent resolution of the DTFT . So there is a practical limit to the benefit that can be obtained from a fine-grained DFT . Summing-up , we summarize the most important advantages and disadvantages of DFT . Disadvantages : - DFT fails at the edges . This is the reason why in the JPEG algorithm ( employed in image compression ) we use the DCT instead of DFT [ 45-48 ] . Even , discrete Hartley transform has an outperform to DFT in DSP and DIP [ 45 , 46 ] . - No compact support , therefore , to arrive at the frequency domain the correspondence element by element between the two domains ( time and frequency ) is lost , with a lousy treatment of energy . - As a consequence of not having compact support , it is not at time . In fact , it moves away from the time domain . For this reason , in the last decades , the scientific community has created some palliatives with better performance in both domain simultaneously , i.e. , time and frequency , such tools are : STFT , GT , and wavelets . - DFT has phase uncertainties ( indeterminate phase for magnitude = 0 ) [ 78 , 79 ] . - As it arises from the product of a matrix by a vector , its computational cost is O ( N2 ) for signals ( 1D ) , and O ( N4 ) for images ( 2D ) . All this would seem to indicate that it is a bad transform , however , they are its advantages that keep it afloat . Then , we describe here only some of them . Advantages : - As the decisions ( relative to filtering and compression ) are taken in the spectral domain , the DFT is in its element for both applications . Although as we mentioned before , given its problem with the edges , we use DCT instead DFT . - It makes the convolutions easier when we use the fast release of DFT , i.e. , FFT . - It is separable ( separability property ) , which is extremely useful when DFT should apply to bi and threedimensional arrays [ 45-48 ] . - Given its internal canonical form ( distribution of twiddle factors within the DFT matrix ) , it allows faster versions of itself , such as FFT . 2.1.3 FFT Fast Fourier Transform - FFT inherits all the disadvantages of the DFT , except the computational complexity of this . In fact , and unlike DFT , the computational cost of FFT is O ( N * log2N ) for signals ( 1D ) , and O (( N * log2N ) 2 ) for images ( 2D ) . For this , it is called fast Fourier transform . FFT is an algorithm that computes the Discrete Fourier Transform ( DFT ) of a sequence , or its inverse . Fourier analysis converts a signal from its original domain ( often time or space ) to the frequency domain and vice versa . An FFT rapidly computes such transformations by factorizing the DFT matrix into a product of sparse ( mostly zero ) factors [ 81 , 82 ] . As a result , it manages to reduce the complexity of computing the DFT from O ( N2 ) , which arises if one simply applies the definition of DFT , to O ( N * log2N ) , where N is the data size . The computational cost for this technique is never greater than the conventional approach and usually significantly less . Further , the computational cost as a function of n is highly continuous , so that linear convolutions of sizes somewhat larger than a power of two . FFT are widely used for many applications in engineering , science , and mathematics . The basic ideas were popularized in 1965 , but some algorithms had been derived as early as 1805 [ 83 ] . In 1994 Gilbert Strang described the fast Fourier transform as the most important numerical algorithm of our lifetime [ 84 ] and it was included in Top 10 Algorithms of 20th Century by the IEEE journal Computing in Science & Engineering [ 85 ] . Overview - There are many different FFT algorithms involving a wide range of mathematics , from simple complex-number arithmetic to group theory and number theory ; this article gives an overview of the available techniques and some of their general properties , while the specific algorithms are described in subsidiary articles linked below . The DFT is obtained by decomposing a sequence of values into components of different frequencies . This operation is useful in many fields ( see discrete Fourier transform for properties and applications of the transform ) but computing it directly from the definition is often too slow to be practical . An FFT is a way to compute the same result more quickly : computing the DFT of N points in the naive way , using the definition , takes O ( N2 ) arithmetical operations , while an FFT can compute the same DFT in only O ( N * log2N ) operations . The difference in speed can be enormous , especially for long data sets where N may be in the thousands or millions . In practice , the computation time can be reduced by several orders of magnitude in such cases , and the improvement is roughly proportional to N / log2N . This huge improvement made the calculation of the DFT practical ; FFTs are of great importance to a wide variety of applications , from digital signal processing and solving partial differential equations to algorithms for quick multiplication of large integers . The best-known FFT algorithms depend upon the factorization of N , but there are FFTs with O ( N * log2N ) complexity for all N , even for prime N. Many FFT algorithms only depend on the fact that e 2 i / N is an N-th primitive root of unity , and thus can be applied to analogous transforms over any finite field , such as number-theoretic transforms . Since the inverse DFT is the same as the DFT , but with the opposite sign in the exponent and a 1 / N factor , any FFT algorithm can easily be adapted for it . History - The development of fast algorithms for DFT can be traced to Gauss's unpublished work in 1805 when he needed it to interpolate the orbit of asteroids Pallas and Juno from sample observations [ 86 ] . His method was very similar to the one published in 1965 by Cooley and Tukey , who are generally credited for the invention of the modern generic FFT algorithm . While Gauss's work predated even Fourier's results in 1822 , he did not analyze the computation time and eventually used other methods to achieve his goal . Between 1805 and 1965 , some versions of FFT were published by other authors . Yates in 1932 published his version called interaction algorithm , which provided efficient computation of Hadamard and Walsh transforms [ 87 ] . Yates' algorithm is still used in the field of statistical design and analysis of experiments . In 1942 , Danielson and Lanczos published their version to compute DFT for x-ray crystallography , a field where calculation of Fourier transforms presented a formidable bottleneck [ 88 ] . While many methods in the past had focused on reducing the constant factor for O ( N2 ) computation by taking advantage of symmetries , Danielson and Lanczos realized that one could use the periodicity and apply a "" doubling trick "" to get O ( N * log2N ) runtime [ 89 ] . Cooley and Tukey published a more general version of FFT in 1965 that is applicable when N is composite and not necessarily a power of 2 [ 90 ] . Tukey came up with the idea during a meeting of President Kennedy's Science Advisory Committee where a discussion topic involved detecting nuclear tests by the Soviet Union by setting up sensors to surround the country from outside . To analyze the output of these sensors , a fast Fourier transform algorithm would be needed . Tukey's idea was taken by Richard Garwin and given to Cooley ( both worked at IBM's Watson labs ) for implementation while hiding the original purpose from him for security reasons . The pair published the paper in a relatively short six months [ 91 ] . As Tukey did n't work at IBM , the patentability of the idea was doubted and the algorithm went into the public domain , which , through the computing revolution of the next decade , made FFT one of the indispensable algorithms in digital signal processing . Fourier Uncertainty Principle - In quantum mechanics , the uncertainty principle [ 92 ] , also known as Heisenberg's uncertainty principle , is any of a variety of mathematical inequalities asserting a fundamental limit to the precision with which certain pairs of physical properties of a particle , known as complementary variables , such as energy E and time t , can be known simultaneously , although p and x are other important , i.e. , position and momentum , respectively . They can not be simultaneously measured with arbitrarily high precision . There is a minimum for the product of the uncertainties of these two measurements . Introduced first in 1927 , by the German physicist Werner Heisenberg , it states that the more precisely the position of some particle is determined , the less precisely its momentum can be known , and vice versa . The formal inequality relating the uncertainty of energy E and the uncertainty of time t was derived by Earle Hesse Kennard later that year and by Hermann Weyl in 1928 : E t / 2 ( 11 ) where ħ is the reduced Planck constant , h / 2π . The energy associated to such system is E ( where = 2f , being f the frequency , and the angular frequency ) ( 12 ) Then , any uncertainty about is transferred to the energy , that is to say , E ( 13 ) Replacing Eq. ( 13 ) into ( 11 ) , we will have , t / 2 ( 14 ) Finally , simplifying Eq. ( 14 ) , we will have , t 1 / 2 ( 15 ) Eq. ( 15 ) say us that a simultaneous decimation in time and frequency is impossible for FFT . Therefore , we must make do with decimate in time or frequency , but not both at once . The four following transforms ( STFT , GT , FrFT , and WT ) represent a futile effort - to date - to link more closely ( individually ) each sample in time with its counterpart in frequency in a biunivocal correspondence . That is to say , they are transforms without compact support . 2.1.4 STFT The short-time Fourier transform ( STFT ) , or alternatively short-term Fourier transform , is a Fourierrelated transform used to determine the sinusoidal frequency and phase content of local sections of a signal as it changes over time [ 93 , 94 ] . In practice , the procedure for computing STFTs is to divide a longer time signal into shorter segments of equal length and then compute the Fourier transform separately on each shorter segment . This reveals the Fourier spectrum on each shorter segment . One then usually plots the changing spectra as a function of time . Continuous-time STFT - Simply , in the continuous-time case , the function to be transformed is multiplied by a window function which is nonzero for only a short period of time . The Fourier transform ( a onedimensional function ) of the resulting signal is taken as the window is slid along the time axis , resulting in a two-dimensional representation of the signal . Mathematically , this is written as : STFT x t , X , x t w t e jt dt ( 16 ) where w ( t ) is the window function , commonly a Hann window or Gaussian window bell centered around zero , and x ( t ) is the signal to be transformed . ( Note the difference between w and ω . ) X ( τ , ω ) is essentially the Fourier Transform of x ( t ) w ( t-τ ) , a complex function representing the phase and magnitude of the signal over time and frequency . Often phase unwrapping is employed along either or both the time axis , τ , and frequency axis , ω , to suppress any jump discontinuity of the phase result of the STFT . The time index τ is normally considered to be "" slow "" time and usually not expressed in as high resolution as time t . The STFT represents an effort to try to fix the spectral components almost instantaneously , i.e. , linked wings temporary signal samples . Discrete-time STFT - In the discrete time case , the data to be transformed could be broken up into chunks or frames ( which usually overlap each other , to reduce artifacts at the boundary ) . Each chunk is Fourier transformed , and the complex result is added to a matrix , which records magnitude and phase for each point in time and frequency . This can be expressed as : STFT x n m , X m , x n w n me jn ( 17 ) n likewise , with signal x [ n ] and window w [ n ] . In this case , m is discrete and ω is continuous , but in most typical applications the STFT is performed on a computer using the Fast Fourier Transform , so both variables are discrete and quantized . The magnitude squared of the STFT yields the spectrogram of the function : spectrogramx t , X , 2 ( 18 ) See also the modified discrete cosine transform ( MDCT ) , which is also a Fourier-related transform that uses overlapping windows . Sliding DFT - If only a small number of ω are desired , or if the STFT is desired to be evaluated for every shift m of the window , then the STFT may be more efficiently evaluated using a sliding DFT algorithm [ 95 ] . Inverse STFT - The STFT is invertible , that is , the original signal can be recovered from the transform by the Inverse STFT . The most widely accepted way of inverting the STFT is by using the overlap-add ( OLA ) method , which also allows for modifications to the STFT complex spectrum . This makes for a versatile signal processing method [ 96 ] , referred to as the overlap and add with modifications method . Continuous-time STFT - Given the width and definition of the window function w ( t ) , we initially require the area of the window function to be scaled so that w d 1 . ( 19 ) It easily follows that w t d 1 t ( 20 ) and x t x t w t d x t w t d . ( 21 ) The continuous Fourier Transform is X x t e jt dt . ( 22 ) Substituting x ( t ) from above : X x t w t d e jt dt x t w t e jt d dt . Swapping order of integration : ( 23 ) X x t w t e jt dt d x t w t e jt dt d ( 24 ) X , d . So the Fourier Transform can be seen as a sort of phase coherent sum of all of the STFTs of x ( t ) . Since the inverse Fourier transform is x t 1 X e jt d , 2π ( 25 ) then x ( t ) can be recovered from X ( τ , ω ) as x t 1 X , e jt d d , 2π ( 26 ) or 1 x t X , e jt d d . 2π ( 27 ) It can be seen , comparing to above that windowed "" grain "" or "" wavelet "" of x ( t ) is x t w t 1 X , e jt d . 2π ( 28 ) the inverse Fourier transform of X ( τ , ω ) for τ fixed . Resolution issues - One of the pitfalls of the STFT is that it has a fixed resolution . The width of the windowing function relates to how the signal is represented – it determines whether there is good frequency resolution ( frequency components close together can be separated ) or good time resolution ( the time at which frequencies change ) . A wide window gives better frequency resolution but poor time resolution . A narrower window gives good time resolution but poor frequency resolution . These are called narrowband and wideband transforms , respectively . Fig. 2 Comparison of STFT resolution . Left has better time resolution , and right has better frequency resolution . This is one of the reasons for the creation of the wavelet transform and multiresolution analysis , which can give good time resolution for high-frequency events and good frequency resolution for low-frequency events , the combination best suited for many real signals . This property is related to the Heisenberg uncertainty principle , but not directly – see Gabor limit for discussion . The product of the standard deviation in time and frequency is limited . The boundary of the uncertainty principle ( best simultaneous resolution of both ) is reached with a Gaussian window function , as the Gaussian minimizes the Fourier uncertainty principle . This is called the Gabor transform ( and with modifications for multiresolution becomes the Morlet wavelet transform ) . One can consider the STFT for varying window size as a two-dimensional domain ( time and frequency ) , as illustrated in the example below , which can be calculated by varying the window size . However , this is no longer a strictly time – frequency representation – the kernel is not constant over the entire signal . Example - Using the following sample signal x ( t ) that is composed of a set of four sinusoidal waveforms joined together in sequence . Each waveform is only composed of one of four frequencies ( 10 , 25 , 50 , 100 Hz ) . The definition of x ( t ) is : cos 2π10t 0s t < 5s cos 2π25t 5s t < 10s x t cos 2π50t 10s t < 15s cos 2π100t 15s t < 20s ( 29 ) Then it is sampled at 400 ... Hz . The following spectrograms were produced . 25 ms window 125 ms window 375 ms window 1000 ms window Fig. 3 The 25 ms window allows us to identify a precise time at which the signals change but the precise frequencies are difficult to identify . At the other end of the scale , the 1000 ms window allows the frequencies to be precisely seen but the time between frequency changes is blurred . Application - STFTs as well as standard Fourier transforms and other tools are frequently used to analyze music . spectrogram can , for example , show frequency on the horizontal axis , with the lowest frequencies at left , and the highest at the right . The height of each bar ( augmented by color ) represents the amplitude of the frequencies within that band . The depth dimension represents time , where each new bar was a separate distinct transform . Audio engineers use this kind of visual to gain information about an audio sample , for example , to locate the frequencies of specific noises ( especially when used with greater frequency resolution ) or to find frequencies which may be more or less resonant in the space where the signal was recorded . This information can be used for equalization or tuning other audio effects . Fig. 4 An STFT being used to analyze an audio signal across time . The properties of the STFT can be seen in full in [ 93 ] . 2.1.5 GT The Gabor transform , named after Dennis Gabor , is a special case of the short-time Fourier transform . It is used to determine the sinusoidal frequency and phase content of local sections of a signal as it changes over time . The function to be transformed is first multiplied by a Gaussian function , which can be regarded as a window function , and the resulting function is then transformed with a Fourier transform to derive the timefrequency analysis [ 94 , 97 ] . The window function means that the signal near the time being analyzed will have higher weight . The Gabor transform of a signal x ( t ) is defined by this formula : Gx t , f e t e j 2 f x d 2 ( 30 ) The Gaussian function has infinite range and it is impractical for implementation . However , a level of significance can be chosen ( for instance 0.00001 ) for the distribution of the Gaussian function . πa 0.00001 ; e πa 2 0.00001 ; e 2 a 1.9143 ( 31 ) a 1.9143 Outside these limits of integration ( a 1.9143 ) the Gaussian function is small enough to be ignored . Thus the Gabor transform can be satisfactorily approximated as Gx t , f 1 . 9143t 1 . 9143t e π t e j 2πf x d 2 ( 32 ) Fig. 5 Magnitude of Gaussian function . This simplification makes the Gabor transform practical and realizable , and with very important applications , such as : face recognition , texture features and classification , facial expression classification , face reconstruction , fingerprint recognition , facial landmark location , and iris recognition [ 45-48 ] , etc. The window function width can also be varied to optimize the time-frequency resolution tradeoff for a particular application by replacing the π t with π t for some chosen alpha . 2 2 Fig. 6 Time / frequency distribution . Application and example - The main application of the Gabor transform is used in time frequency analysis . Take the following equation as an example . The input signal has 1 Hz frequency component when t ≤ 0 and has 2 Hz frequency component when t > 0 cos 2πt for t 0 x t cos 4πt for t 0 ( 33 ) But if the total bandwidth available is 5 Hz , other frequency bands except x ( t ) are wasted . Through time frequency analysis by applying the Gabor transform , the available bandwidth can be known and those frequency bands can be used for other applications and bandwidth is saved . The right side picture show the input signal x ( t ) and the output of the Gabor transform . As was our expectation , the frequency distribution can be separated into two parts . One is t ≤ 0 and the other is t > 0 . The white part is the frequency band occupied by x ( t ) and the black part is not used [ 98 ] . Discrete Gabor-transformation - A discrete version of Gabor representation y t C m n nm . gnm t ( 34 ) with gnm t s t m 0 . e jΩnt ( 35 ) can be derived easily by discretizing the Gabor-basis-function in these equations . Hereby the continuous parameter t is replaced by the discrete time k . Furthermore the now finite summation limit in Gabor representation has to be considered . In this way , the sampled signal y ( k ) is split into M time frames of length N. According to Ω 2π / 0 , the factor Ω for critical sampling is Ω 2π / N. Similar to the DFT ( discrete Fourier transformation ) a frequency domain split into N discrete partitions is obtained . An inverse transformation of these N spectral partitions then leads to N values y ( k ) for the time window , which consists of N sample values . For overall M time windows with N sample values , each signal y ( k ) contains K = N M sample values : ( the discrete Gabor representation ) M 1 N 1 y k Cnm . gnm k ( 36 ) m 0 n 0 with gnm k s k m N. e jΩnk ( 37 ) According to the equation above , the NxM coefficients Cnm correspond to the number of sample values K of the signal . For over-sampling Ω is set to Ω 2π / N = 2π / N ' with N ' > N , which results in N ' > N summation coefficients in the second sum of the discrete Gabor representation . In this case , the number of obtained Gabor-coefficients would be MxN ' > K. Hence , more coefficients than sample values are available and therefore a redundant representation would be achieved [ 98 ] . The properties of the GT can be seen in full in [ 97 ] . 2.1.6 FRFT In mathematics , in the area of harmonic analysis , the fractional Fourier transform ( FRFT ) is a family of linear transformations generalizing the Fourier transform . It can be thought of as the Fourier transform to the n-th power , where n need not be an integer – thus , it can transform a function to any intermediate domain between time and frequency . Its applications range from filter design and signal analysis to phase retrieval and pattern recognition . The FRFT can be used to define fractional convolution , correlation , and other operations , and can also be further generalized into the linear canonical transformation ( LCT ) . An early definition of the FRFT was introduced by Condon [ 99 , 100 ] , by solving for the Green's function for phase-space rotations , and also by Namias [ 101 ] , generalizing work of Wiener [ 102 ] on Hermite polynomials . However , it was not widely recognized in signal processing until it was independently reintroduced around 1993 by several groups [ 103 ] . Since then , there has been a surge of interest in extending Shannon's sampling theorem [ 104 , 105 ] for signals which are band-limited in the Fractional Fourier domain . A completely different meaning for "" fractional Fourier transform "" was introduced – after that – by Bailey and Swartztrauber [ 106 ] as essentially another name for a z-transform , and in particular for the case that corresponds to a discrete Fourier transform shifted by a fractional amount in frequency space ( multiplying the input by a linear chirp ) and evaluating at a fractional set of frequency points ( e.g. considering only a small portion of the spectrum ) . Such transforms can be evaluated efficiently by Bluestein's FFT algorithm . This terminology has fallen out of use in most of the technical literature , however , in preference to the FRFT . Introduction - As we can see in Subsection 2.1.1 , the Fourier transform ( or , continuous Fourier transform ) of a function ƒ : is a unitary operator of L2 that maps the function ƒ to its frequential version f : f f x e 2 ix dx , for any real number ξ . And ƒ is determined by f via the inverse transform f x f e2 ix d , 4 function ƒ , f 0 1 for any real number x . n Let us study its n-th iterated negative integer , and ( 38 ) f defined by n f ( 39 ) n 1 f . Their sequence is finite since f and n 1 n when n is a non - is a 4-periodic automorphism : for every f . More precisely , let us introduce the parity operator that inverts time , f : t f t . Then the following properties hold : 0 Id , 3 1 1 , 2 , Id , 4 ( 40 ) . The FrFT provides a family of linear transforms that further extends this definition to handle non-integer powers n = 2α / π of the FT . Definition - For any real α , the α-angle fractional Fourier transform of a function ƒ is denoted by u and defined by f u 1 i cot α e i π cot α u 2 e cot α 2 i 2π csc α ux x 2 f x dx . ( the square root is defined such that the argument of result lies in the interval π / 2 , π / 2 ) ( 41 ) If α is an integer multiple of π , then the cotangent and cosecant functions above diverge . However , this can be handled by taking the limit , and leads to a Dirac delta function in the integrand . More directly , since 2 f f t , f must be simply f ( t ) or f ( − t ) for α an even or odd multiple of π , respectively . For α = π / 2 , this becomes precisely the definition of the continuous Fourier transform , and for α = − π / 2 it is the definition of the inverse continuous Fourier transform . The FrFT argument u is neither a spatial one x nor a frequency ξ . We will see why it can be interpreted as linear combination of both coordinates ( x , ξ ) . When we want to distinguish the α-angular fractional domain , we will let xa denote the argument of α . Remark : with the angular frequency ω convention instead of the frequency one , the FrFT formula is the Mehler kernel , f 1 i cot α i cotα 2 / 2 i cscα t cotα t 2 / 2 e f t dt . e 2π ( 42 ) Interpretation of the fractional Fourier transform - The usual interpretation of the Fourier transform is as a transformation of a time domain signal into a frequency domain signal . On the other hand , the interpretation of the inverse Fourier transform is as a transformation of a frequency domain signal into a time domain signal . Apparently , fractional Fourier transforms can transform a signal ( either in the time domain or frequency domain ) into the domain between time and frequency : it is a rotation in the time-frequency domain . This perspective is generalized by the linear canonical transformation , which generalizes the fractional Fourier transform and allows linear transforms of the time-frequency domain other than rotation . Fig. 7 Time / frequency distribution of fractional Fourier transform . Take the below figure as an example . If the signal in the time domain is rectangular ( as below ) , it will become a sinc function in the frequency domain . But if we apply the fractional Fourier transform to the rectangular signal , the transformation output will be in the domain between time and frequency . Actually , fractional Fourier transform is a rotation operation on the time frequency distribution . From the definition above , for α = 0 , there will be no change after applying fractional Fourier transform , and for α = π / 2 , fractional Fourier transform becomes a Fourier transform , which rotates the time frequency distribution with π / 2 . For other value of α , fractional Fourier transform rotates the time frequency distribution according to α . The following figure shows the results of the fractional Fourier transform with different values of α . Application - Fractional Fourier transform can be used in time frequency analysis and DSP [ 107-109 ] . It is useful to filter noise , but with the condition that it does not overlap with the desired signal in the time frequency domain . Consider the following example . We can not apply a filter directly to eliminate the noise , but with the help of the fractional Fourier transform , we can rotate the signal ( including the desired signal and noise ) first . We then apply a specific filter which will allow only the desired signal to pass . Thus the noise will be removed completely . Then we use the fractional Fourier transform again to rotate the signal back and we can get the desired signal . Fractional Fourier transforms are also used to design optical systems and optimize holographic storage efficiency [ 110-112 ] . Thus , using just truncation in the time domain , or equivalently low-pass filters in the frequency domain , one can cut out any convex set in time-frequency space ; just using time domain or frequency domain methods without fractional Fourier transforms only allow cutting out rectangles parallel to the axes . Fig. 8 Fractional Fourier transform in DSP . The properties of the FrFT can be seen in full in [ 99 ] . 2.2 Wavelets in general , and Haar basis in particular 2.2.1 Wavelets in general In mathematics , a wavelet series is a representation of a square-integrable ( real - or complex-valued ) function by a certain orthonormal series generated by a wavelet . Nowadays , wavelet transformation is one of the most popular candidates of the time-frequency-transformations [ 113 ] . This article provides a formal , mathematical definition of an orthonormal wavelet and of the integral wavelet transform . Definition - A function L2 is called an orthonormal wavelet if it can be used to define a Hilbert basis [ 113-116 ] , that is a complete orthonormal system , for the Hilbert space L2 functions . The Hilbert basis is constructed as the family of functions jk : j , k of square integrable by means of dyadic translations and dilations of , j 2 jk x 2 2 j x k for integers j , k ( 43 ) . If under the standard inner product on L2 f , g , f x g x dx ( 44 ) this family is orthonormal , it is an orthonormal system : jk , lm jk x lm x dx ( 45 ) jl km where jl is the Kronecker delta . Completeness is satisfied if every function h L2 h x j , k may be expanded in the basis as c jk jk x ( 46 ) with convergence of the series understood to be convergence in norm . Such a representation of a function f is known as a wavelet series . This implies that an orthonormal wavelet is self-dual [ 117 , 118 ] . Wavelet transform - The integral wavelet transform [ 119 ] is the integral transform defined as W f a , b 1 a xb f x dx a The wavelet coefficients c jk are then given by ( 47 ) c jk W f 2 j , k 2 j ( 48 ) Here , a 2 j is called the binary dilation or dyadic dilation , and b k 2 j is the binary or dyadic position . Basic idea - The fundamental idea of wavelet transforms is that the transformation should allow only changes in time extension , but not shape [ 120 ] . This is effected by choosing suitable basis functions that allow for this . Changes in the time extension are expected to conform to the corresponding analysis frequency of the basis function . Based on the uncertainty principle of signal processing , Δt Δω 1 2 ( 49 ) Equation ( 49 ) results be Eq. ( 15 ) of Subsection 2.1.3 . The higher the required resolution in time , the lower the resolution in frequency has to be . The larger the extension of the analysis windows is chosen , the larger is the value of Δt . Fig. 9 Wavelet with small and larget , respectively . When Δt is large [ 113 ] , 1 . Bad time resolution 2 . Good frequency resolution 3 . Low frequency , large scaling factor When Δt is small [ 113 ] 1 . Good time resolution 2 . Bad frequency resolution 3 . High frequency , small scaling factor In other words , the basis function can be regarded as an impulse response of a system with which the function x ( t ) has been filtered [ 121 , 122 ] . The transformed signal provides information about the time and the frequency . Therefore , wavelet-transformation contains information similar to the short-time-Fouriertransformation , but with additional special properties of the wavelets , which show up at the resolution in time at higher analysis frequencies of the basis function . The difference in time resolution at ascending frequencies for the Fourier transform and the wavelet transform is shown below [ 123 , 124 ] . Fig. 10 STFT vs WT , decimation in time and frequency simultaneously . This shows that wavelet transformation is good in time resolution of high frequencies , while for slowly varying functions , the frequency resolution is remarkable . Another example - The analysis of three superposed sinusoidal signals y t sin 2πf 0t sin 4πf 0t sin 8πf 0t with STFT and wavelet-transformation . Fig. 11 STFT vs WT , decimation in frequency . The properties of the WT can be seen in full in [ 113 ] . 2.2.2 Haar basis in particular We will use Haar basis ( without loss of generality regarding another wavelet basis ) first for denoising and compression , and then – in Section 2.4 – for superresolution and additional compression ( generally called supercompression ) . Besides , although we begin with two-dimensional discrete wavelet transform for images , immediately after , we will explain the one-dimensional version of the discrete wavelet transform for signals , as well as , the corresponding Haar basis in each case . Finally , it is important to mention in here that inside wavelets context , denoising and compression are the same , because the procedure is the same , and all the denoising wavelet techniques inevitably reduce the details of the treated image ( or signal ) . Such details reduction directly affects the volume of the final image ( or signal ) file . Denoising / compression of images - An image is affected by noise in its acquisition and processing . The denoising techniques are used to remove the additive noise while retaining as much as possible the important image features . In the recent years there has been an important amount of research on wavelet thresholding and threshold selection for images denoising [ 125-170 ] , because wavelet provides an appropriate basis for separating noisy signal from the image signal . The motivation is that as the wavelet transform is good at energy compaction , the small coefficients are more likely due to noise and large coefficient due to important signal features [ 125-127 ] . These small coefficients can be thresholded without affecting the significant features of the image . In fact , the thresholding technique is the last approach based on wavelet theory to provide an enhanced approach for eliminating such noise source [ 128 , 129 ] and ensure better image quality [ 130 , 131 ] . Thresholding is a simple non-linear technique , which operates on one wavelet coefficient at a time . In its basic form , each coefficient is thresholded by comparing against threshold , if the coefficient is smaller than threshold , set to zero ; otherwise it is kept or modified . Replacing the small noisy coefficients by zero and inverse wavelet transform on the result may lead to reconstruction with the essential signal characteristics and with less noise . Since the work of Donoho & Johnstone [ 125-127 ] , there has been much research on finding thresholds , however few are specifically designed for images [ 138-170 ] . Two-dimensional Discrete Wavelet Transform ( DWT-2D ) - The DWT-2D [ 130 , 131 , 136-170 ] corresponds to multiresolution approximation expressions . In practice , mutiresolution analysis is carried out using 4 channel filter banks ( for each level of decomposition ) composed of a low-pass and a high-pass filter and each filter bank is then sampled at a half rate ( 1 / 2 down sampling ) of the previous frequency . By repeating this procedure , it is possible to obtain wavelet transform of any order . The down sampling procedure keeps the scaling parameter constant ( equal to 1 ⁄ 2 ) throughout successive wavelet transforms so that is benefits for simple computer implementation . In the case of an image , the filtering is implemented in a separable way be filtering the lines and columns . Note that the DWT of an image consists of four frequency channels for each level of decomposition [ 130 , 131 ] . For example , for i-level ( superscript ) of decomposition for noisy ( subscript ) image , we have : Fig. 12 Data preparation of the image . Recursive decomposition of LL parts . LLin : Noisy Coefficients of Approximation . LH in : Noisy Coefficients of Horizontal Detail , HLin : Noisy Coefficients of Vertical Detail , and HH in : Noisy Coefficients of Diagonal Detail . The LL part at each scale is decomposed recursively , as illustrated in Fig. 12 [ 130 , 131 ] . Fig. 13 Detail of level decomposition for down-right image of Fig. 12 . Figure 13 shows – in detail – three levels of decomposition for gray version of Lena . In this figure , we can see that the splitting occurs from the subband of approximation coefficients , always . Each application of DWT2D provides four subbands , which , every LLi will have less noise and size as the previous one , i.e. , LLi-1 . To achieve space-scale adaptive noise reduction , we need to prepare the 1-D coefficient data stream which contains the space-scale information of 2-D images . This is somewhat similar to the "" zigzag "" arrangement of the DCT ( Discrete Cosine Transform ) coefficients in image coding applications [ 169 ] . In this data preparation step , the DWT-2D coefficients are rearranged as a 1-D coefficient series in spatial order so that the adjacent samples represent the same local areas in the original image [ 165 ] . Figure 14 shows inside of DWT-2D with the four subbands of the transformed image [ 170 ] , while Fig. 15 shows inside of IDWT-2D ( which is the inverse of DWT-2D ) , both , i.e. , DWT-2D and IDWT-2d will be used in Fig. 16 . Each output of Fig. 14 represents a subband of splitting process of the 2-D coefficient matrix corresponding to Fig. 12 . More split levels are not shown to avoid complicating the figures 14 and 15 . Fig. 14 DWT-2D . A decomposition step . Usual splitting of the subbands . Fig. 15 Inverse DWT-2D ( IDWT-2D ) . A recomposition step . Usual integration of the subbands . This stage does not do much except for splitting the image into four disjoint sets of pixels . In our case one group consists of the low frequency indexed pixels in one subband and the other group consists of three high frequency subbands of indexed pixels . Each subband contains a quarter as many pixels as the original image . The splitting into low and high frequency is called the Lazy wavelet transform . Fig. 16 Thresholding Techniques . Wavelet Noise Thresholding - The wavelet coefficients calculated by a wavelet transform represent change in the image at a particular resolution . By looking at the image in various resolutions it should be possible to filter out noise , at least in theory . However , the definition of noise is a difficult one . In fact , "" one person's noise is another 's signal "" . In part this depends on the resolution one is looking at . One algorithm to remove Gaussian white noise is summarized by D.L. Donoho and I.M. Johnstone [ 125-127 ] , and synthesized in Fig. 16 . The algorithm is : 1 . Calculate a wavelet transform and order the coefficients by increasing frequency . This will result in an array containing the image average plus a set of coefficients of length 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , etc. The noise threshold will be calculated on the highest frequency coefficient spectrum ( this is the largest spectrum ) . 2 . Calculate the median absolute deviation ( mad ) on the largest coefficient spectrum . The median is calculated from the absolute value of the coefficients . The equation for the median absolute deviation is shown below : δ mad i median | C n | ( 50 ) 0.6745 where Cin may be LH in , HLin , or HH in for i-level of decomposition . The factor 0.6745 in the denominator rescales the numerator so that mad is also a suitable estimator for the standard deviation for Gaussian white noise [ 5 , 165 , 169 ] . 3 . For calculating the noise threshold λ we have used a modified version of the equation that has been discussed in papers by D.L. Donoho and I.M. Johnstone . The equation is : λ δ mad 2 log N ( 51 ) where N is the number of pixels in the subimage , i.e. , LH , HL or HH . 4 . Apply a thresholding algorithm to the coefficients . There are two popular versions : 4.1 Soft thresholding sets any coefficient less than or equal to the threshold to zero , see Fig. 17 ( a ) . The space between – and + is called dead zone . Fig. 17 ( a ) Soft-Thresholfing where x may be LH in , HLin , or HH in , y may be LH id : Denoised Coefficients of Horizontal Detail , HLid : Denoised Coefficients of Vertical Detail , and HH id : Denoised Coefficients of Diagonal Detail , for i-level of decomposition . The respective code is : for row = 1 : N1 / 2 for column = 1 : N1 / 2 if Cin row column λ , Cin row column 0.0 ; end end end 4.2 Hard thresholding sets any coefficient less than or equal to the threshold to zero , see Fig. 17 ( b ) . The threshold is subtracted from any coefficient that is greater than the threshold . This moves the image coefficients toward zero . Here too , the space between – and + is called dead zone . Fig. 17 ( b ) Hard-Thresholfing The respective code is : for row = 1 : N1 / 2 for column = 1 : N1 / 2 if Cin row column λ , Cin row column 0.0 ; else Cin row column Cin row column λ ; end end end A much more efficient denoising / compression technique based on detail subbands filtering of DWT-2D is due to Mastriani [ 162 , 166 ] , which is called Smoothing of Coefficients in Wavelet Domain . This technique is notably superior to thresholding methods above seen [ 162 , 166 ] , and then it will be explained . However , before , we will explain the basic principles of a two-dimensional convolution mask [ 45-48 ] . Two-dimensional convolution mask – It consists in a mask , which makes a horizontal rafter ( see Fig. 18 ) on that image ( or detail wavelet subband ) to which we must obtain , e.g. , an image or subband denoising [ 45-48 ] via two-dimensional convolution between the mask and a similarly dimensional portion of the image or subband . Fig. 18 The convolution between the mask and the original image ( or subband ) in a horizontal rafter produce the processed image ( or subband ) . The main idea is to make an interaction between the mask and a portion of the image to be processed ( with the same dimension as the mask ) and that the result of said interaction to replace central pixel value of the image portion affected by the mask [ 45-48 ] . Based on Fig. 19 , we take a mask of 3 × 3 ( often called kernel , which should be of any size , that is , not only 3 × 3 , provided it has the same number of rows and columns and the dimension is an odd number ) which is applied in a horizontal rafter way . Various types of convolution masks are used in Digital Image Processing for filtering , enhancement , edge detection , among others applications [ 45-48 ] . Fig. 19 An example of 3x3 filter window for new edge-detection algorithm on an image ( or subband ) . Smoothing of coefficients ( SC ) in wavelet domain – Like to last methods , we decompose the noisy image into four wavelet subbands , and then , we apply a two-dimensional smoothing within each highest subband , and reconstruct an image from the modified wavelet coefficients , that is to say , denoised coefficients , as shown in Fig. 20 . Fig. 20 Smoothing of coefficients in wavelet domain . If we use an original image of R-by-C pixels , then each subbands will have ( R / 2 ) - by - ( C / 2 ) coefficients . The SC process is applied - in principle - a single time , and exclusively to the first level of decomposition . Directional Smoothing - To protect the edges from blurring while smoothing the respective coefficients of subband , an appropriate filter must be applied . The most of statistical filters have a noise reduction approach that performs spatial filtering in a square-moving window defined as kernel , and is based on the statistical relationship between the central pixel and its surrounding pixels as shown in Fig. 21 . Fig. 21 3-by-3 filter window for noise smoothing over each highest subband using directional smoothing . The size of the filter window can range from 3-by-3 to 33-by-33 , with an odd number of cells in both directions . A larger filter window means that a larger area of the subband will be used for calculation and requires more computation time depending on the complexity of the filter's algorithm . If the size of filter window is too large , the important details will be lost due to over smoothing . On the other hand , if the size of the filter window is too small , noise reduction may not be very effective . In practice , a 3-by-3 or a 7-by-7 filter window usually yields good results in the cases under study [ 171 , 172 ] . For example , if the statistical filter used inside SC method ( that is to say , over each highest subbands ) is Directional Smoothing ( DS ) , then , let x [ r , c ] denote the value of the corresponding noisy detail coefficient at location ( r , c ) . Let W [ r , c ] represent the group of coefficients contained in a filtering window with the size of 3-by-3 pixels and centered at location ( r , c ) of the corresponding noisy detail coefficient , as shown in Fig. 21 : W r , c Cin r + p , c + q / p , q 1,0,1 ( 52 ) where p and q are integer indices each individually ranging from − 1 to 1 . Here , r and c are the row and the column indices , respectively , with 2 ≤ r ≤ ( R / 2 ) - 1 and 2 ≤ c ≤ ( C / 2 ) - 1 . The noisy input subband is processed by sliding a 3-by-3 filtering window on the subband . The window is started from the upper-left corner of the subband and moved sideways and progressively downwards in a raster scanning fashion . Meanwhile , the directional averaging filter ( selective with respect to direction ) examine the average based on several directionally oriented masks , as shown in Fig. 21 , and it compute averages in d ( 1 ) , d ( 2 ) , d ( 3 ) and d ( 4 ) directions . Such as , I ( r , c ) = d ( k ) where d ( k ) is the one closest in amplitude to I ( r , c ) , i.e. | I ( r , c ) - d ( k ) | minimum , and k 1,4 . That is to say , it has a tendency not to destroy boundaries . On the other hand , the directional analysis can also be used to check if a coefficient belongs to a directional edge ( leave unchanged ) or is noise ( remove noise ) . Directional smoothing method in much finer than the mean filtering , reason by which , the first does not require a post-filtering enhancement ( based on a realce mask ) as in the case of the second one . That is , in the directional smoothing the edges are not injured as mean filtering . See next subsection . Being I r , c Cin r , c , the following MATLAB ® [ 49 ] code represents the Directional Smoothing ( DS ) function for four directions and a 3x3 kernel [ 166 , 171 ] . function Id = ds ( I ) [ ROW , COL ] = size ( I ) ; Id = [ ] ; for r = 2 : ROW-1 % padded image for c = 2 : COL-1 % padded image d ( 1 ) = ( I ( r + 1 , c-1 ) + I ( r , c ) + I ( r-1 , c + 1 )) / 3 ; d ( 2 ) = ( I ( r-1 , c ) + I ( r , c ) + I ( r + 1 , c )) / 3 ; d ( 3 ) = ( I ( r-1 , c-1 ) + I ( r , c ) + I ( r + 1 , c + 1 )) / 3 ; d ( 4 ) = ( I ( r , c-1 ) + I ( r , c ) + I ( r , c + 1 )) / 3 ; for k = 1 : 4 aux ( k ) = abs ( d ( k ) - I ( r , c )) ; end [ min_aux , allo_min_aux ] = min ( aux ) ; Id ( r , c ) = round ( d ( allo_min_aux )) ; end end where I and Id represent the noisy and denoised image or subband , respectively , while , ROW and COL , are the number of rows , and columns , respectively , the size of I is ROWxCOL , while for Id is ROW-2xCOL-2 . On the other hand , this method can be passed more than once , therefore , said method becomes in a multipass directional smoothing [ 166-171 ] . Finally , if the image or subband is in color , thus , we must apply in each bitmap matrix , that is to say , red , green , and blue , individually . Mean Filtering – The idea of classical mean filtering is simply to replace each pixel value in an image with the mean ( ' average ' ) value of its neighbors , including itself . This has the effect of eliminating pixel values which are unrepresentative of their surroundings . Mean filtering is usually thought of as a convolution filter . Like other convolutions it is based around a kernel ( or mask ) , which represents the shape and size of the neighborhood to be sampled when calculating the mean . Often a 3 × 3 square kernel is used , as shown in Fig. 22 , although larger kernels ( e.g. 5 × 5 squares ) can be used for more severe smoothing . ( Note that a small kernel can be applied more than once in order to produce a similar but not identical effect as a single pass with a large kernel . ) Fig. 22 3 × 3 averaging kernel often used in mean filtering . The mean filtering is the biggest noise remover of all employees in the Digital Image Processing [ 45-48 ] . However , it is the heat that injures edges and image texture to a greater degree . Undoubtedly , its main advantage is the simplicity of coding . However , and as in the case of directional smoothing , the image must be padded before use , i.e. , if the image has ROWxCOL pixels , and the mask has M-by-M elements , the padded image should have ( ROW - ( M-1 )) x ( COL - ( M-1 )) pixels . The following MATLAB ® [ 49 ] code represents the Mean Filtering ( MF ) function for a 3x3 kernel [ 45-48 ] . function Id = mf ( I ) [ ROW , COL ] = size ( I ) ; mask = ones ( 3 , 3 ) / 9 ; Id = [ ] ; for r = 2 : ROW-1 % padded image for c = 2 : COL-1 % padded image for p = -1 : 1 : 1 for q = -1 : 1 : 1 W ( p + 2 , q + 2 ) = I ( r + p , c + q ) ; end end Id ( r , c ) = sum ( sum ( W. * mask )) ; end end Here also , the size of I is ROWxCOL , and the size of mask is 3x3 , while for Id is ROW-2xCOL-2 . Finally - Any used filter performs the filtering based on either local statistical data given in the filter window to determine the noise variance within the filter window , or estimating the local noise variance of the subband under study , e.g. , Lee , Kuan , Gamma-Map , Enhanced Lee , Frost , Enhanced Frost [ 171 , 173 ] , Wiener [ 171 ] , DS [ 171 , 172 ] , Enhanced DS ( EDS ) [ 171 ] , Savitzky-Golay 2D ( see Subsection 2.3 ) , and a new filter from QuSA ( see Subsection 3.3.1 for signals , and 3.3.2 for images , Figures 18 to 22 , and Subsection 4.1.3 ) . Haar basis for DWT-2D – without loss of generality , we show the first time for application of Haar basis , considering : I LL0 ( original image ) ( 53 ) r 1 , R c 1 , C LL1r , c LL0r , c LL0r , c + 1 LL0r + 1 , c LL0r + 1 , c + 1 / 4 scaling function LH1r , c LL0r , c LL0r , c + 1 LL0r + 1 , c LL0r + 1 , c + 1 / 4 wavelet function HL1r , c LL0r , c LL0r , c + 1 LL0r + 1 , c LL0r + 1 , c + 1 / 4 wavelet function HH1r , c LL0r , c LL0r , c + 1 LL0r + 1 , c LL0r + 1 , c + 1 / 4 wavelet function ( 54 ) and so on [ 125-127 ] . One-dimensional Discrete Wavelet Transform ( DWT-1D ) - For DWT-1D [ 125-127 ] , we will take similar considerations to DWT-2D , that is to say , Lin : Noisy Coefficients of Approximation , and H in : Noisy Coefficients of Detail . The L part at each scale is decomposed recursively like two-dimensional version , as illustrated in Fig. 23 [ 125-127 ] , e.g. , for a typical electrocardiographic signal [ 174 ] . Figure 24 shows the interior of the DWT-1D with the two subbands of the transformed signal [ 125-127 ] , which will be used in Fig. 25 , where IDWT-1D is the inverse of DWT-1D . Each output of Fig. 24 represents a subband of splitting process of the 1-D coefficient vector corresponding to Fig. 23 . Fig. 23 Data preparation of the signal . Recursive decomposition of L parts . Fig. 24 DWT-1D . Three decomposition steps . Usual splitting of the subbands . Fig. 25 Inverse DWT-1D ( IDWT-1D ) . Three recomposition steps . Usual integration of the subbands . Wavelet Noise Thresholding – It is similar to the two-dimensional case , with the same algorithm , see Fig. 26 . Smoothing of coefficients ( SC ) in wavelet domain – Like to two-dimensional case , we decompose the noisy signal into wavelet subbands ( only two in here ) , and then , we apply a smoothing ( e.g. , Savitzky-Golay , see Subsection 2.3 , and a new filter from QuSA , see Subsections 3.3.1 for signals , and 3.3.2 for images , Figures 18 to 22 , and Subsection 4.1.3 ) within each highest subband , and reconstruct a signal from the modified wavelet coefficients , that is to say , denoised coefficients , as shown in Fig. 27 . Haar basis for DWT-1D – without loss of generality , we show the first time for application of Haar basis , considering : S L0 ( original signal ) ( 55 ) t 1 , T , where t is time . L1t L0t L0t + 1 / 2 scaling function H1t L0t L0t + 1 / 2 wavelet function and so on [ 125-127 ] . ( 56 ) Fig. 26 Thresholding Techniques . Fig. 27 Smoothing Technique . Finally , we can apply smoothing of coefficients in wavelet domain via directional smoothing over highest subband of a signal , as in two-dimensional case , but adapted to one-dimensional case , thanks to a new technique . Coming up next . Directional Smoothing to a Signal – The procedure starts from the construction of a mask ( kernel , or window ) , as in the two-dimensional case , although in this case it applies to a signal instead of an image . Given a signal S , as a sequence of time samples , and assuming that it is integrable and differentiable , we have : S S t-NΔt S t-2Δt S t-Δt S t S t + Δt S t + 2Δt S t + NΔt ( 57 ) In every t we have a sample , altogether 2N + 1 samples . On the other hand , we will call U ( up ) to the integral of said signal in time , so that : U S dt U t-NΔt U t-2Δt U t-Δt U t U t + Δt U t + 2Δt U t + NΔt ( 58 ) While , D ( down ) will be the time derivative of the signal S : D S D t-NΔt t D t-2Δt D t-Δt D t D t + Δt D t + 2Δt D t + NΔt ( 59 ) Figure 28 shows the original signal in green , its integral in red , and its derivative in blue . Fig. 28 3-by-3 filter window for noisy smoothing over the image or highest subband using directional smoothing . For example , the window will be constituted ( at time instant t ) as follow , see Fig. 28 : U t-Δt W t S t-Δt D t-Δt U t St Dt U t + Δt S t + Δt D t + Δt ( 60 ) As the window moves from left to right ( i.e. , it progresses over time ) the coefficients of the same change . The size of the filter window can range from 3-by-3 to 33-by-33 , with an odd number of cells in both directions . For example , for a mask of 5-by-5 , we have the following elements constituting the top row of the filter window ( in each instant t ) : U 2 U dt S dt 2 U 2 t-NΔt U 2 t-2Δt U 2 t-Δt U 2 t U 2 t + Δt U 2 t + 2Δt U 2 t + NΔt ( 61 ) where , superscript 2 means "" second integral "" . Similarly , the down row of the filter window ( in each instant t ) , we have : D 2 S 2 t t 2 D t-NΔt D2 ( 62 ) D 2 t-2Δt D t-Δt D t D t + Δt D t + 2Δt 2 2 2 2 D 2 t + NΔt where , superscript 2 means "" second derivative "" . Then , the filter window in this case will be : U 2 t-2Δt U 2 t-Δt U t-Δt U t-2Δt S t-Δt W t S t-2Δt D t-2Δt D t-Δt D2 t-2Δt D2 t-Δt U2 t U 2 t + Δt St S t + Δt U t U t + Δt Dt D t + Δt t D 2 t + Δt D 2 U 2 t + 2Δt U t + 2Δt S t + 2Δt D t + 2Δt D 2 t + 2Δt ( 63 ) and similarly for larger window . From this point , the procedure is similar to the two-dimensional case , thus , it only remains to adapt the corresponding algorithm to the one-dimensional case environment . Therefore , the following MATLAB ® [ 49 ] code represents the Directional Smoothing ( DS ) function for four directions and a 3x3 kernel for signal denoising . function Sd = ds ( S ) T = length ( S ) ; % Padding signal % aux_S = [ 0 S 0 ] ; % for non-cyclical signals aux_S = [ S ( T ) S S ( 1 ) ] ; % for cyclical signals D = [ ] ; for n = - N + 1 : N-1 t = n - ( - N + 1 ) + 3 ; D ( t-2 ) = ( aux_S ( t ) - aux_S ( t-2 )) / 2 ; end U = cumsum ( S ) ; Sd = [ ] ; for n = - N + 1 : N-1 t = n - ( - N + 1 ) + 2 ; d ( 1 ) = ( D ( t-1 ) + S ( t ) + U ( t + 1 )) / 3 ; d ( 2 ) = ( D ( t ) + S ( t ) + U ( t )) / 3 ; d ( 3 ) = ( D ( t + 1 ) + S ( t ) + U ( t-1 )) / 3 ; d ( 4 ) = ( S ( t-1 ) + S ( t ) + S ( t + 1 )) / 3 ; for k = 1 : 4 aux ( k ) = abs ( d ( k ) - S ( t )) ; end [ min_aux , allo_min_aux ] = min ( aux ) ; Sd ( t-1 ) = d ( allo_aux_min ) ; end end where T = 2N + 1 , with – N + 1 ≤ t ≤ N-1 , Sd is the denoised signal or subband . While , the size of S , U and D is T , the size of Sd is T-2 = 2N-1 ( padded signal or subband ) . Note : this tool was created by the author for this paper . Mean Filtering to a Signal – Similar to two-dimensional case , the idea of classical mean filtering applied to a signal is simply to replace each sample S ( t ) of this with the mean ( ' average ' ) value of its neighbors ( in window ) , including itself , see Fig. 29 . Fig. 29 3-by-3 filter window for noisy smoothing over the image or highest subband using mean filtering . This has the effect of eliminating signal sample which are unrepresentative of their surroundings . Give a signal like Eq. ( 57 ) , here too , in every t we have a sample , altogether 2N + 1 samples . However , U ( up ) results from a positive increase on the signal , so that : U S ΔS U t-NΔt U t-2Δt U t-Δt U t U t + Δt U t + 2Δt U t + NΔt ( 64 ) While , D ( down ) will result from a negative increase on the signal S : D S ΔS D t-NΔt D t-2Δt D t-Δt D t D t + Δt D t + 2Δt D t + NΔt ( 65 ) As usual , S = . 1S . Then , the filter windows is the same of Eq. ( 60 ) . Here too , the size of the filter window can range from 3-by-3 to 33-by-33 , with an odd number of cells in both directions . For example , for a mask of 5-by-5 , we have the following elements constituting the top row of the filter window ( in each instant t ) : U 2 S 2ΔS U 2 t-NΔt U 2 t-2Δt U 2 t-Δt U 2 t U 2 t + Δt U 2 t + 2Δt U 2 t + NΔt ( 66 ) D2 t + NΔt ( 67 ) Similarly , the down row of the filter window ( in each instant t ) , we have : D 2 S 2ΔS D2 t-NΔt D2 t-2Δt D2 t-Δt D2 t D2 t + Δt D2 t + 2Δt Then , the filter windows is the same of Eq. ( 63 ) . The following MATLAB ® [ 49 ] code represents the Mean Filtering ( MF ) function for a 3x3 kernel for signal denoising . function Sd = mf ( S ) T = length ( S ) ; U = 1.1 * S ; D = 0.9 * S ; Sd = [ ] ; for n = - N + 1 : N-1 t = n - ( - N + 1 ) + 2 ; acuD = 0 ; acuS = 0 ; acuU = 0 ; for aux = -1 : 1 acuD = acuD + D ( t + aux ) ; acuS = acuS + S ( t + aux ) ; acuU = acuU + U ( t + aux ) ; end Sd ( t-1 ) = ( acuD + acuS + acuU ) / 9 ; end With similar considerations about Directional Smoothing regarding to names and sizes . Note : this tool was created by the author for this paper . 2.3 Savitzky-Golay Filtering A Savitzky – Golay filter ( SGF ) [ 175 ] is a digital filter that can be applied to a set of digital data points for the purpose of smoothing the data , that is , to increase the signal-to-noise ratio without greatly distorting the signal . This is achieved , in a process known as convolution , by fitting successive sub-sets of adjacent data points with a low-degree polynomial by the method of linear least squares . When the data points are equally spaced an analytical solution to the least-squares equations can be found , in the form of a single set of "" convolution coefficients "" that can be applied to all data sub-sets , to give estimates of the smoothed signal , ( or derivatives of the smoothed signal ) at the central point of each sub-set . The method , based on established mathematical procedures [ 176 , 177 ] , was popularized by Abraham Savitzky and Marcel J. E. Golay who published tables of convolution coefficients for various polynomials and sub-set sizes in 1964 [ 178 , 179 ] . Some errors in the tables have been corrected [ 180 ] . The method has been extended for the treatment of 2and 3-dimensional data . Savitzky and Golay's paper is one of the most widely cited papers in the journal Analytical Chemistry [ 181 ] and is classed by that journal as one of its "" 10 seminal papers "" saying "" it can be argued that the dawn of the computer-controlled analytical instrument can be traced to this article "" [ 182 ] . SGF [ 183 ] is a particular type of low-pass filter , well-adapted for data smoothing , and termed variously Savitzky-Golay [ 178 ] , least-squares [ 184 ] , or DISPO ( Digital Smoothing Polynomial ) [ 185 ] filters . Rather than having their properties defined in the Fourier domain , and then translated to the time domain , SavitzkyGolay filters derive directly from a particular formulation of the data smoothing problem in the time domain , as we will now see . SGFs were initially ( and are still often ) used to render visible the relative widths and heights of spectral lines in noisy spectrometric data . Recall that a digital filter is applied to a series of equally spaced data values fi ≡ f ( ti ) , where ti ≡ t0 + iΔ for some constant sample spacing Δ and i = ... − 2 , − 1 , 0 , 1 , 2 , .... We have seen [ 183 ] that the simplest type of digital filter ( the nonrecursive or finite impulse response filter ) replaces each data value fi by a linear combination gi of itself and some number of nearby neighbors , gi nR c n nL n fi n ( 68 ) Here nL is the number of points used "" to the left "" of a data point i , i.e. , earlier than it , while nR is the number used to the right , i.e. , later . A so-called causal filter would have nR = 0 . As a starting point for understanding SGFs , consider the simplest possible averaging procedure : For some fixed nL = nR , compute each gi as the average of the data points from f i nL to f i nR . This is sometimes called moving window averaging and corresponds to equation ( 68 ) with constant cn = 1 / ( nL + nR +1 ) . If the underlying function is constant , or is changing linearly with time ( increasing or decreasing ) , then no bias is introduced into the result . Higher points at one end of the averaging interval are on the average balanced by lower points at the other end . A bias is introduced , however , if the underlying function has a nonzero second derivative . At a local maximum , for example , moving window averaging always reduces the function value . In the spectrometric application , a narrow spectral line has its height reduced and its width increased . Since these parameters are themselves of physical interest , the bias introduced is distinctly undesirable . Note , however , that moving window averaging does preserve the area under a spectral line , which is its zeroth moment , and also ( if the window is symmetric with nL = nR ) its mean position in time , which is its first moment . What is violated is the second moment , equivalent to the line width . The idea of Savitzky-Golay filtering is to find filter coefficients cn that preserve higher moments . Equivalently , the idea is to approximate the underlying function within the moving window not by a constant ( whose estimate is the average ) , but by a polynomial of higher order , typically quadratic or quartic : For each point fi , we least-squares fit a polynomial to all nL + nR +1 points in the moving window , and then set gi to be the value of that polynomial at position i . We make no use of the value of the polynomial at any other point . When we move on to the next point fi + 1 , we do a whole new least-squares fit using a shifted window . All these least-squares fits would be laborious if done as described . Luckily , since the process of leastsquares fitting involves only a linear matrix inversion , the coefficients of a fitted polynomial are themselves linear in the values of the data . That means that we can do all the fitting in advance , for fictitious data consisting of all zeros except for a single 1 , and then do the fits on the real data just by taking linear combinations . This is the key point , then : There are particular sets of filter coefficients cn for which equation ( 68 ) "" automatically "" accomplishes the process of polynomial least-squares fitting inside a moving window . To derive such coefficients , consider how g0 might be obtained : We want to fit a polynomial of degree M in i , namely a0 + a1i + ・ ・ ・ + aM iM to the values f nL , ... , f nR . Then g0 will be the value of that polynomial at i = 0 , namely a0 . The design matrix for this problem is Aij i j i nL ,, nR , j 0 ,, M ( 69 ) and the normal equations for the vector of aj ' s in terms of the vector of fi ' s is in matrix notation A A a = A f T a = AT A or 1 A f T We also have the specific forms A A T ij nR k nL Aki Akj nR k i j ( 71 ) k nL and A f T j nR k nL Akj f k nR k k nL j fk ( 72 ) Since the coefficient cn is the component a0 when f is replaced by the unit vector en , − nL ≤ n < nR , we have cn A A A e A A T 1 M T T n 0 m 0 1 nm ( 73 ) 0m Note that equation ( 73 ) says that we need only one row of the inverse matrix . Numerically we can get this by LU decomposition with only a single backsubstitution [ 183 ] . The accompanying Table I shows some typical Savitzky-Golay coefficients [ 183 ] . For orders 2 and 4 , the coefficients of SGFs with several choices of nL and nR are shown . The central column is the coefficient applied to the data fi in obtaining the smoothed gi . Coefficients to the left are applied to earlier data ; to the right , to later . The coefficients always add ( within roundoff error ) to unity . One sees that , as befits a smoothing operator , the coefficients always have a central positive lobe , but with smaller , outlying corrections of both positive and negative sign . In practice , the SGFs are most useful for much larger values of nL and nR , since these few-point formulas can accomplish only a relatively small amount of smoothing . M 2 2 2 2 4 4 nL 2 3 4 5 4 5 nR 2 1 0 5 4 5 -0.084 0.042 TABLE I SAMPLE SAVITZKY-GOLAY COEFFICIENTS . Coefficients -0.086 0.343 0.486 0.343 -0.086 -0.143 0.171 0.343 0.371 0.257 0.086 -0.143 -0.086 0.257 0.886 0.021 0.103 0.161 0.196 0.207 0.196 0.161 0.103 0.035 -0.128 0.070 0.315 0.417 0.315 0.070 -0.128 -0.105 -0.023 0.140 0.280 0.333 0.280 0.140 -0.023 0.021 0.035 -0.105 -0.084 0.042 Fig. 30 Top : Synthetic noisy data consisting of a sequence of progressively narrower bumps , and additive Gaussian white noise . Center : Result of smoothing the data by a simple moving window average . The window extends 16 points leftward and rightward , for a total of 33 points . Note that narrow features are broadened and suffer corresponding loss of amplitude . The dotted curve is the underlying function used to generate the synthetic data . Bottom : Result of smoothing the data by a Savitzky-Golay smoothing filter ( of degree 4 ) using the same 33 points . While there is less smoothing of the broadest feature , narrower features have their heights and widths preserved . Figure 30 shows a numerical experiment using a 33 point smoothing filter , that is , nL = nR = 16 . The upper panel shows a test function , constructed to have six "" bumps "" of varying widths , all of height 8 units . To this function Gaussian white noise of unit variance has been added . The test function without noise is shown as the dotted curves in the center and lower panels . The widths of the bumps ( full width at half of maximum , or FWHM ) are 140 , 43 , 24 , 17 , 13 , and 10 , respectively . The middle panel of Figure 30 shows the result of smoothing by a moving window average . One sees that the window of width 33 does quite a nice job of smoothing the broadest bump , but that the narrower bumps suffer considerable loss of height and increase of width . The underlying signal ( dotted ) is very badly represented . The lower panel shows the result of smoothing with a SGF of the identical width , and degree M = 4 . One sees that the heights and widths of the bumps are quite extraordinarily preserved . A trade-off is that the broadest bump is less smoothed . That is because the central positive lobe of the SGF coefficients fills only a fraction of the full 33 point width . As a rough guideline , best results are obtained when the full width of the degree 4 SGF is between 1 and 2 times the FWHM of desired features in the data [ 185 , 186 ] . Figure 31 shows the result of smoothing the same noisy "" data "" with broader SGFs of 3 different orders . Here we have nL = nR = 32 ( 65 point filter ) and M = 2 , 4 , 6 . One sees that , when the bumps are too narrow with respect to the filter size , then even the SGF must at some point give out . The higher order filter manages to track narrower features , but at the cost of less smoothing on broad features . The accompanying Table II shows some typical Savitzky-Golay coefficients for Fig. 31 . Fig. 31 Result of applying wider 65 point Savitzky-Golay filters to the same data set as in Figure 30 . Top : degree 2 . Center : degree 4 . Bottom : degree 6 . All of these filters are inoptimally broad for the resolution of the narrow features . Higher-order filters do best at preserving feature heights and widths , but do less smoothing on broader features . TABLE II PATCH OF IMAGE DATA f ( i ) WITH ITS LOCAL COORDINATE SYSTEM . yi -2 -1 0 1 2 -2 f ( 0 ) f ( 5 ) f ( 10 ) f ( 15 ) f ( 20 ) -1 f ( 1 ) f ( 6 ) f ( 11 ) f ( 16 ) f ( 21 ) xi 0 f ( 2 ) f ( 7 ) f ( 12 ) f ( 17 ) f ( 22 ) 1 f ( 3 ) f ( 8 ) f ( 13 ) f ( 18 ) f ( 23 ) 2 f ( 4 ) f ( 9 ) f ( 14 ) f ( 19 ) f ( 24 ) Example of How to Compute 2D SGF - As an example , suppose we want to smooth or differentiate an image based on 5x5 image patches [ 187 ] . The image patch is laid out as follows : f ( i ) is the pixel value , and the column vector f represents all the image data , i.e. f = f 0 f 1 f 24 T ( 74 ) We want to fit a 3rd order , two-dimensional polynomial to this data . The polynomial is f i F x i , yi a 00 a10 x i a 01 yi a 20 x i2 a11x i yi a 02 yi2 a 30 x i3 a 21x i2 yi a12 x i yi2 a 03 yi3 ( 75 ) Note that the coefficient of xi yj is aij . ( xi , yi ) is the pixel coordinate of f ( i ) . To compute the coefficients from the data we set up a matrix equation : Aa f ( 76 ) where 1 x 0 1 x1 A 1 x 24 y0 y1 x 02 x12 x 0 y0 x1 y1 y 02 y12 x 30 x13 y 24 2 x 24 x 24 y 24 y 224 x 324 x 02 y 0 x12 y1 x 0 y02 x 0 y12 2 x 224 y 24 x 0 y 24 y30 y13 y324 ( 77 ) and a is the vector of polynomial coefficients : a a 00 a10 a 01 a 20 a11 a 02 a 30 a 21 a12 a 03 T ( 78 ) Equation ( 76 ) simply reproduces the polynomial for each pixel in the image patch . We solve for the polynomial coefficients using least squares : a AT A AT f 1 ( identical to Eq. 70 ) ( 79 ) C AT A AT is the pseudo-inverse of A , and it is independent of the image data . Each polynomial 1 coefficient is computed as the inner product of one row of C and the column of pixel values f . This is the surprising part about SGFs : the polynomial coefficients are computed using a linear filter on the data . Just as one can reassemble f back into a rectangular patch of pixels , one can also assemble each row of C into the same size rectangle to get a traditional-looking image filter . To complete this example , here are the filters for the first three polynomial coefficients . We will use the naming convention that coefficient a ij is computed from rectangular filter Cij . The first three filters are : 0.0743 0.0114 C00 0.0400 0.0114 0.0743 0.0743 0.0114 0.1257 0.1543 0.1257 0.0400 0.0971 0.1257 0.0971 0.0114 0.0114 0.0400 0.0114 0.0743 0.0114 0.0400 0.0971 0.1257 0.0114 0.0971 ( 80 ) 0.0738 0.1048 C10 0 0.1048 0.0738 0.0119 0.1476 0.0405 0.1619 0.0119 0.1476 0 0.1476 0 0.1619 0 0.1476 0.0119 0.0405 0.0119 0.0738 0.1048 0.0119 0.1476 C01 0.0405 0.1619 0.0119 0.1476 0.0738 0.1048 0.0738 0.1048 0 0.1048 0.0738 0.0738 0.0119 0 0.1619 0.0405 0 0.1476 0.0119 0 0.1048 0.0738 0 0 ( 81 ) 0.1048 0.1476 ( 82 ) Example of How to Use 2D SGF - Suppose we want to smooth an image . Using a SGFs , we are conceptually fitting a two-dimensional polynomial to the image patch surrounding each pixel and then evaluating this polynomial [ 187 ] . The local coordinate system that we use for the image patch ( see Table II ) has ( x , y ) = ( 0 , 0 ) at the pixel of interest in the middle of the patch . Thus to compute the smoothed value of the pixel , we just evaluate the polynomial at ( x , y ) = ( 0 , 0 ) . This turns out to be merely a 00 , which we can compute by applying filter C00 to the image patch . Suppose we want to compute partial derivatives on the patch . The two partial derivatives of the fitted polynomial are Fx x i , yi = a10 2 a 20 x i a11 yi 3a 30 x i2 2 a 21 x i yi a12 yi2 Fy x i , yi = a 01 a11 x i 2 a 02 yi + a 21 x i2 2 a12 x i yi 3a 03 yi2 ( 83 ) Evaluating at ( x , y ) = ( 0 , 0 ) , the results are simply Fx ( 0 , 0 ) = a10 and Fy ( 0 , 0 ) = a01 , which are computed with filters C10 and C01 above . 2.4 Superresolution in general , and for still images in particular Introduction - Digital image capture produces discrete representations of continuous scenes [ 188 ] . This discretisation in both space and intensity is a sampling process that creates aliasing , and information at frequencies above the Nyquist rate is lost . It is common to wish to construct a higher resolution image from a template image or a set of images , but the aliasing and loss of frequency information makes this an ill-posed ( inverse ) problem . The typical solution to this problem ( known in the literature as image super-resolution reconstruction , or simply superresolution ) is to use an ensemble of related lower-resolution images . As each of these images has aliased the higher frequency information slightly differently , under certain conditions it is possible to "" unwrap "" some of the aliasing and reconstruct the lost higher frequencies . There are numerous methods [ 189-193 ] of performing super-resolution . Many of them are computationally expensive in nature , but allow for complicated motion models , significant noise and image degradation , and other aspects that are not considered in this work . Given assumptions of global translational motion , low noise and linear space and time invariant blur due to the imaging sensor point spread function ( PSF ) , image superresolution reconstruction can be split into there distinct steps : - Registration Reconstruction / Interpolation Deblurring Image registration is a technique that can be used to determine the relative translations between the input images . Generally , the desire is to do this from the contents of the images alone , without any prior knowledge . There are many different methods for performing registration [ 189 ] ; however , in the context of image superresolution , image registration is required to determine the offsets between the images with accuracy down to a small fraction of a pixel [ 189 ] . Once the images have been registered , all the pixels from the ensemble can be combined to form a composite image . The resultant image is no longer sampled on a uniform rectangular grid , but due to global translational motion , it has a semi-uniform structure , as can be seen in Figure 32 . Reconstructing the image data at all points on a high resolution grid requires that the semi-regular data is interpolated and resampled . It is this interpolation problem that is addressed in this paper . Fig. 32 Composite image exhibits a semi-uniform structure . For the full super-resolution approach , a deblurring procedure can now be applied that restores the high frequencies that have been suppressed by the low-resolution imaging process . In this paper we perform this deblurring after the interpolated process via a convolution between the up-sampled image and a convolution mask deduced specifically . However , the main goal of Super-Resolution ( SR ) methods – in practice – is to recover a high-resolution image from one or more low-resolution input images . Methods for SR can be broadly classified into two families of methods : - The classical multi-image super-resolution , and - Example-Based super-resolution . In the classical multi-image SR ( e.g. , [ 190 ] to name just a few ) asset of low-resolution images of the same scene are taken ( at subpixel misalignments ) . Each low-resolution image imposes asset of linear constraints on the unknown high-resolution intensity values . If enough low-resolution images are available ( at subpixel shifts ) , then the set of equations becomes determined and can be solved to recover the high-resolution image . Practically , however , this approach is numerically limited only to small increases in resolution [ 190 ] ( by factors smaller than 2 ) . These limitations have lead to the development of "" Example-Based Super-Resolution "" also termed "" image hallucination "" ( see references in [ 190 ] ) . In example-based SR , correspondences between low and highresolution image patches are learned from a data base of low and high-resolution image pairs ( usually with a relative scale factor of 2 ) , and then applied to a new low-resolution image to recover its most likely highresolution version . Higher SR factors have often been obtained by repeated applications of this process . Example-based SR has been shown to exceed the limits of classical SR . However , unlike classical SR , the high resolution details reconstructed ( "" hallucinated "" ) by example-based SR are not guaranteed to provide the true ( unknown ) high-resolution details . Sophisticated methods for image up-scaling based on learning edge models have also been proposed ( e.g. , [ 191-193 ] ) . The goal of these methods is to magnify ( up-scale ) an image while maintaining the sharpness of the edges and the details in the image . In contrast , in SR ( example-based as well as classical ) the goal is to recover new missing high-resolution details that are not explicitly found in any individual low-resolution image ( details beyond the Nyquist frequency of the low-resolution image ) . In the classical SR , this highfrequency information is assumed to be split across multiple low-resolution images , implicitly found there in aliased form . In example-based SR , this missing high-resolution information is assumed to be available in the high-resolution data base patches , and learned from the low-res / high-res pairs of examples in the database . However beyond what we have said above , in this paper , we consider the interpolation of a single image . On the other hand , the rendering of lower resolution image data on higher resolution displays has become a very common task , in particular because of the increasing popularity of webcams , camera phones , and lowbandwidth video streaming . Thus , there is a strong demand for real-time , high-quality image magnification . In this work , we suggest to exploit the high performance of general-purpose computation on programmable graphics processing units ( GPGPUs ) for an original image magnification method . To this end , we propose a GPGPU-friendly algorithm for image up-sampling with edge restoration image interpolation , which avoids ringing artifacts , excessive blurring , and stair-casing of oblique edges . At the same time it features gray-scale invariance , is applicable to color images , and allows for real-time processing of full-screen images on today's GPGPUs [ 194-197 ] . Two-dimensional Interpolation - A digital image is not an exact snapshot of reality , it is only a discrete approximation . This fact should be apparent to the average web surfer , as images commonly become blocky or jagged after being resized to fit the browser . The goal of image interpolation is to produce acceptable images at different resolutions from a single low-resolution image . The actual resolution of an image is defined as the number of pixels , but the effective resolution is a much harder quantity to define as it depends on subjective human judgment and perception . The goal of this section is to explore different mathematical formulations of this essentially aesthetic quantity . The image interpolation problem goes by many names , depending on the application : image resizing , image up-sampling / down-sampling , digital zooming , image magnification , resolution enhancement , etc. The term super-resolution is sometimes used , although in the literature this generally refers to producing a highresolution image from multiple images such as a video sequence . If we define interpolation as "" filling in the pixels in between , "" the image interpolation problem can be viewed as a subset of the inpainting problem ( see Figure 33 ) . The applications of image interpolation range from the common place viewing of online images to the more sophisticated magnification of satellite images . With the rise of consumer-based digital photography , users expect to have a greater control over their digital images . Digital zooming has a role in picking up clues and details in surveillance images and video . As high-definition television ( HDTV ) technology enters the marketplace , engineers are interested in fast interpolation algorithms for viewing traditional low-definition programs on HDTV . Fig. 33 Image interpolation using linear method of interp2 built-in MATLAB ® function . Top : original image . Medium : close-up of eye in image . Down : interpolated image . Astronomical images from rovers and probes are received at an extremely low transmission rate ( about 40 bytes per second ) , making the transmission of high-resolution data infeasible [ 198 ] . In medical imaging , neurologists would like to have the ability to zoom in on specific parts of brain tomography images . This is just a short list of applications , but the wide variety cautions us that our desired interpolation result could vary depending on the application and user . The Image Interpolation Problem - In this section , we will establish the notation for image interpolation used throughout the paper . Suppose our image is defined over some rectangle 2 . Let the function f : be our ideal continuous image . In an abstract sense , we can think of f as being "" reality "" and as our "" viewing window "" . Our observed image u0 is a discrete sampling of f at equally spaced points in the plane . If we suppose the resolution of u0 is x y , we can express u0 by u0 ( x , y ) Cx , y ( x , y ) f ( x , y ) , ( x , y ) ( 84 ) where C denotes the Dirac comb : Cx , y ( x , y ) ( k x , ly ) , ( x , y ) 2 . ( 85 ) k , lZ The goal of image interpolation is to produce an image u at a different resolution x ' y ' . For simplicity , we will assume that the Euclidean coordinates are scaled by the same factor K : u ( x , y ) C x , y ( x , y ) f ( x , y ) , K ( x , y ) . ( 86 ) K Given only the image u0 , we will have to devise some reconstruction of f at the pixel values specified by this new resolution . We will refer to K as our zoom or magnification factor . Obviously , if K = 1 we trivially recover u0 . The image u0 is upsampled if K 1 and downsampled if K 1 . In this paper , we will focus on the upsampling case when K 1 is an integer . Let K denote the lattice induced by ( 86 ) for a fixed zoom K. Note that the lattice of the original image u0 in ( 85 ) is 1 . Also note that for infinite magnification we obtain K as K. For computation purposes , we can shift the lattices to the positive integers . So if the observed image u0 is an m x n image , K 1 , 2 ,, Km 1 , 2 ,, Kn , K Z. ( 87 ) Many interpolation techniques impose the constraint 1 K. In this case , only a subset of the pixels in K needs to be determined and the interpolation problem becomes a version of the inpainting problem . Given the notation above , we can state the image interpolation problem succinctly : Given a low-resolution image u0 : 1 and a zoom K 1 , find a high-resolution image u : K. Obviously , this is an illposed problem . We need to impose assumptions on the reconstruction of f in equation ( 86 ) . The choice of interpolation technique depends on the choice of assumptions . In other words , we need a mathematical understanding of what constitutes our perception of "" reality "" f . Interpolation methods differ in their mathematical description of a "" good "" interpolated image . Although it is difficult to compare methods and judge their output , [ 198 ] proposes 9 basic criteria for a good interpolation method . The first 8 are visual properties of the interpolated image , the last is a computational property of the interpolation method . 1 ) Geometric Invariance : The interpolation method should preserve the geometry and relative sizes of objects in an image . That is , the subject matter should not change under interpolation . 2 ) Contrast Invariance : The method should preserve the luminance values of objects in an image and the overall contrast of the image . 3 ) Noise : The method should not add noise or other artifacts to the image , such as ringing artifacts near the boundaries . 4 ) Edge Preservation : The method should preserve edges and boundaries , sharpening them where possible . 5 ) Aliasing : The method should not produce jagged or "" staircase "" edges . 6 ) Texture Preservation : The method should not blur or smooth textured regions . 7 ) Over-smoothing : The method should not produce undesirable piecewise constant or blocky regions . 8 ) Application Awareness : The method should produce results appropriate to the type of image and order of resolution . For example , the interpolated results should appear realistic for photographic images , but for medical images the results should have crisp edges and high contrast . If the interpolation is for general images , the method should be independent of the type of image . 9 ) Sensitivity to Parameters : The method should not be too sensitive to internal parameters that may vary from image to image . Of course , these are qualitative and somewhat subjective criteria . We unlike [ 198 ] , do not hope to develop a mathematical model of image interpolation and error analysis , but simply apply the most efficient method for our development . In a sense , the method employed in this paper presents a mathematical model of these visual criteria . Linear Interpolation Filters - The simplest approach is to assume that f in equation ( 86 ) is reconstructed by a convolution kernel : 2 where ( x , y ) dy dx 1 . Then we can approximate f by f u0 * . ( 88 ) Substituting this into ( 86 ) gives rise to a general linear interpolation filter u ( x , y ) C x , y ( x , y ) . ( u0 * ) ( x , y ) , K ( x , y ) . ( 89 ) K The simplest linear filters are the bilinear and bicubic interpolation , which assume the pixel values can be fit locally to linear and cubic functions , respectively [ 198 ] . Along with simple nearest neighbor interpolation , these two filters are the most common interpolation schemes in commercial software . These methods are easy to code as matrix multiplications of u0 . However , an image contains edges and texture , in other words discontinuities . So the assumptions that pixel values locally fit a polynomial function will produce undesirable results . The bilinear and bicubic interpolation methods [ 198 ] may introduced blurring , create ringing artifacts , and produce a jagged aliasing effect along edges ( see Fig. 34 ) . The blurring effects arise from the fact that the methods compute a weighted average of nearby pixels , just as in Gaussian blurring . The aliasing effects arise because the linear filters do not take into consideration the presence of edges or how to reconstruct them . Other linear interpolation filters include quadratic zoom , the B-spline method , and zero-padding . But these schemes produce the same undesirable effects as the bilinear and bicubic methods , as mentioned in [ 198 ] . Linear filters differ in the choice of , which essentially determine show to compute the weighted average of nearby pixels . While this is a natural interpolation scheme for general data sets , this is not necessarily appropriate for visual data . In order to improve upon these linear filters , we need to consider interpolation methods that some how quantify and preserve visual information . Which Methods to Consider ? - Generally speaking , mathematical approaches to image processing can be divided into five categories : 1 ) Partial-Differential Equation ( PDE ) - Based Methods ( e.g. heat diffusion , Perona-Malik , NavierStokes , and mean curvature ) . 2 ) Variations of Energy ( e.g. Total Variation , Mumford-Shah , active contours ) 3 ) Multiscale Analysis ( e.g. wavelets , Fourier analysis , Gabor analysis , Laplacian pyramids ) 4 ) Machine Learning ( e.g. unsupervised learning , data mining , Markov networks ) 5 ) Statistical / Probabilistic Methods ( e.g. Bayesian inference , Natural Scene Statistics , pattern theory ) We are trying to describe the field in broad terms , but not to rank or pigeonhole work in computer vision . Indeed , many techniques such as TV-wavelets inpainting certainly do not fit into one category . Also , these methods differ at the mathematical level , but not necessarily at the conceptual level . For example , some versions of the TV energy can be minimized by solving a PDE or by optimizing a variation of energy . In our attempt to survey recent work in image interpolation and also display the variety of mathematics used , we will highlight one method from each of the five categories [ 198 ] 1 ) A PDE-Based Approach : anisotropic heat diffusion 2 ) A Variation of Energy Approach : Mumford-Shah inpainting 3 ) A Multiscale Approach : wavelet-based interpolation 4 ) A Machine Learning Approach : LLE-based neighbor embeddings 5 ) A Statistical Approach : NL-means interpolation Fig. 34 Part of Lena image down-sampled and then up-sampled by factor K = 16 . Top : Original , Second : Nearest Neighbor , Third : Bilinear , and Down : Bicubic . These methods are , in some sense , representative of the mathematical approaches to the image interpolation problem and , in a larger sense , to the field of image processing . For example , the heat equation is the most studied PDE in image processing and the Mumford-Shah energy has generated dozens , if not hundreds , of research papers . However , these methods have a number of disadvantages to its implementation , reason , we choose a configuration based on linear interpolation . The main disadvantages are : 1 ) 2 ) 3 ) 4 ) Their hard coding They depend heavily on initial conditions Their high computational complexity Their visual quality is not superior to linear interpolation , except for high levels of downsampling / upsampling , with automatically means a high rate of compression / decompression . In the latter case , we use a convolution mask [ 46 , 162 , 166 , 171 ] to enhance the edges , as discussed in the next section . Super-resolution Scheme for Compression - This subsection is organized into four parts , for a better understanding of the concepts : 1 ) 2 ) 3 ) 4 ) Super-resolution vs Deblurring , Compression vs Super-compression , Deduction of the mask Applications The latter two can be seen in [ 188 ] . Super-resolution vs Deblurring - As we saw in the Introduction of this section , there is much confusion between the concepts of superresolution and deblurring in Digital Image Processing [ 45 , 46 ] . We are going to establish here two rigorous definitions for the purpose of eliminating this confusion . We say that a process is super-resolution if it restores the sharpness of an image involving an increase in the resolution of the same [ 188-193 , 199-201 ] . We say that a process is deblurring if it restores the sharpness of an image not involving an increase in the resolution of the same . This process is applied when the image sharpness suffers an aberration called blur [ 45 , 46 ] , which comes from a high relative speed of the object in focus in relation to the camera , fast opening and closing the shutter , etc. We consider important to mention that both processes can involve each other as part of the process of improving the sharpness of the image . In fact , we can understand the superresolution as a process of increasing the resolution followed by a restoration of the edges by a deblurring process . On the other hand , previously established definitions are fundamental to understanding what follows . Compression vs Super-compression - We define compression as the process reduces the average number of bit-per-pixel ( bpp ) of an image . In Fig. 35 , we represent the set of bit-planes in which decomposes a gray or color image . As seen in Fig. 35 , the compression process does not alter the image size [ 45 , 46 , 188 ] . Instead , we define supercompression as the process reduces the average number of bit-per-pixel ( bpp ) of an image after downsizing . The size reduction process is performed by down-sampling , which takes shrinkage in rows and columns , without obligation to respect the aspect ratio [ 202 ] . When we say , we increase the standard compression 5 times , this means that we move from a resolution of ROWxCOL ( high-resolution ) to another 5 times lower of original , i.e. , ROWxCOL / 5 ( low-resolution ) . The standard image compression , e.g. , Join Picture Expert Group ( JPEG , [ 188 , 45-48 ] ) is not affected by the supercompression . As discussed in [ 188 ] , supercompression requires minimal equipment at the encoder and the reverse procedure to supercompression in the decoder [ 188 ] . In Fig. 36 , we represent the set of bit-planes in which decomposes a gray or color image . As discussed in [ 188 ] , our supercompression procedure consists in two parts spread in encoder and decoder . Fig. 35 Compression . In encoder we have two steps : 1 ) Downsampling 2 ) Encoding via JPEG and in decoder we have four steps : 1 ) Decoding via JPEG-1 2 ) Upsampling 3 ) Deblurring In our case , the downsampling and upsampling is done with the techniques of Subsection 4.1.3 , while the deblurring is done by a two-dimensional convolution mask of NxN pixels , which makes a rafter over the upsampled ( blurred ) image [ 188 ] . The parameters of this squared mask ( where N is odd ) are criticals , therefore , such parameters must be calculated and adjusted with total accuracy . Moreover , in [ 188 ] , we proceed to deduct the mask and set the optimal relationship between its parameters . Later we proceed to adjust them via a Genetic Algorithm [ 203 ] , which gives us the best combination of value of a unsharp masking whose center is different from the elements around it ( which are all the same ) and added all give zero . Summing-up , since the theory of Fourier has all the difficulties mentioned throughout this section , it is imperative to a new tool that allows us instant spectral analysis of the signal and so complete the timefrequency toolbox available to the scientific community . Fig. 36 Supercompression . 2.5 Edge detection Introduction – An edge in an image is a significant local change in the image intensity , usually associated with a discontinuity in either the image intensity or the first derivative of the image intensity . Discontinuities in the image intensity can be either ( 1 ) step discontinuities , where the image intensity abruptly changes from one value on one side of the discontinuity to a different value on the opposite side , or ( 2 ) line discontinuities , where the image intensity abruptly changes value but then returns to the starting value within some short distance . However , step and line edges are rare in real images . Because of low-frequency components or the smoothing introduced by most sensing devices , sharp discontinuities rarely exist in real signals . Step edges become ramp edges and line edges become roof edges , where intensity changes are not instantaneous but occur over a finite distance . Illustrations of these edge profiles are shown in Fig. 37 . Gradient – Edge detection is essentially the operation of detecting significant local changes in an image . In one dimension , a step edge is associated with a local peak in the first derivative . The gradient is a measure of change in a function , and an image can be considered to be an array of samples of some continuous function of image intensity . By analogy , significant changes in the gray values in an image can be detected by using a discrete approximation to the gradient . The gradient is the two-dimensional equivalent of the first derivative and is defined as the vector Fig. 37 One-dimensional edge profiles . f Gx x G f x , y G y f y ( 90 ) There are two important properties associated with the gradient : ( 1 ) the vector G [ f ( x , y ) ] points in the direction of the maximum rate of increase of the function f ( x , y ) , and ( 2 ) the magnitude of the gradient , given by G f x , y Gx2 G y2 ( 91 ) equals the maximum rate of increase of f ( x , y ) per unit distance in the direction G. It is common practice , however , to approximate the gradient magnitude by absolute values : G f x , y Gx Gy or G f x , y max Gx , G y ( 92 ) ( 93 ) From vector analysis , the direction of the gradient is defined as : Gy Gx x , y tan 1 ( 94 ) where the angle is measured with respect to the x axis . Note that the magnitude of the gradient is actually independent of the direction of the edge . Such operators are called isotropic operators . Numerical Approximation – For digital images , the derivatives in Eq. ( 90 ) are approximated by differences . The simplest gradient approximation is Gx f i , j 1 f i , j ( 95 ) Gy f i , j f i 1 , j ( 96 ) Remember that j corresponds to the x direction and i to the negative y direction . These can be implemented with simple convolution masks as shown below : Gx 1 1 1 Gy 1 ( 97 ) When computing an approximation to the gradient , it is critical that the x and y partial derivatives be computed at exactly the same position in space . However , using the above approximations , Gx is actually the approximation to the gradient at the interpolated point [ i , j + 1 / 2 ] and Gy at [ i + 1 / 2 , j ] . For this reason , 2 x 2 first differences , rather than 2 x 1 and 1 x 2 masks , are often used for the x and y partial derivatives : 1 1 Gx 1 1 1 1 Gy 1 1 ( 98 ) Now , the positions about which the gradients in the x and y directions are calculated are the same . This point lies between all four pixels in the 2 x 2 neighborhood at the interpolated point [ i + 1 / 2 , j + 1 / 2 ] . This fact may lead to some confusion . Therefore , an alternative approach is to use a 3 x 3 neighborhood and calculate the gradient about the center pixel . These methods are discussed next . Steps in edge detection – Algorithms for edge detection contain three steps : - Filtering : Since gradient computation based on intensity values of only two points are susceptible to noise and other vagaries in discrete computations , filtering is commonly used to improve the performance of an edge detector with respect to noise . However , there is a trade-off between edge strength and noise reduction . More filtering to reduce noise results in a loss of edge strength . - Enhancement : In order to facilitate the detection of edges , it is essential to determine changes in intensity in the neighborhood of a point . Enhancement emphasizes pixels where there is a significant change in local intensity values and is usually performed by computing the gradient magnitude . - Detection : We only want points with strong edge content . However , many points in an image have a nonzero value for the gradient , and not all of these points are edges for a particular application . Therefore , some method should be used to determine which points are edge points . Frequently , thresholding provides the criterion used for detection . - Localization : The location of the edge can be estimated with subpixel resolution if required for the application . The edge orientation can also be estimated . Roberts Operator – The Roberts cross operator provides a simple approximation to the gradient magnitude ( above view ) : G f i , j f i , j f i 1 , j 1 f i 1 , j f i , j 1 ( 99 ) Using convolution masks , this becomes G f i , j Gx Gy where Gx and Gy are calculated using the following masks : ( 100 ) 1 0 Gx 0 1 0 1 Gy 1 0 ( 101 ) As with the previous 2 x 2 gradient operator , the differences are computed at the interpolated point [ i + 1 / 2 , j + 1 / 2 ] . The Roberts operator is an approximation to the continuous gradient at that point and not at the point [ i , j ] as might be expected . The results of Roberts edge detector are shown in the figures at the end of this section . Sobel Operator – As mentioned previously , a way to avoid having the gradient calculated about an interpolated point between pixels is to use a 3 x 3 neighborhood for the gradient calculations . Consider the arrangement of pixels about the pixel [ i , j ] shown in Fig. 38 . The Sobel operator is the magnitude of the gradient computed by M sx2 s 2y ( 102 ) where the partial derivatives are computed by sx a2 ca3 a4 a0 ca7 a6 ( 103 ) s y a0 ca1 a2 a6 ca5 a4 ( 104 ) with the constant c = 2 . Like the other gradient operators , sx and sy can be implemented using convolution masks : 1 0 1 sx 2 0 2 1 0 1 1 2 1 sy 0 0 0 1 2 1 ( 105 ) Note that this operator places an emphasis on pixels that are closer to the center of the mask . The figures at the end of this section show the performance of this operator . The Sobel operator is one of the most commonly used edge detectors . Fig. 38 The labeling of neighborhood pixels used to explain the Sobel and Prewitt operators [ 45-48 ] . Prewitt Operator – The Prewitt operator uses the same equations as the Sobel operator , except that the constant c = 1 . Therefore : 1 0 1 sx 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 s y 0 0 0 1 1 1 ( 106 ) Note that , unlike the Sobel operator , this operator does not place any emphasis on pixels that are closer to the center of the masks . The performance of this edge detector is also shown in the figures at the end of this section . Canny Edge Detector – The Canny edge detector is the first derivative of a Gaussian and closely approximates the operator that optimizes the product of signal-to-noise ratio and localization . The Canny edge detection algorithm is summarized by the following notation . Let I [ i , j ] denote the image . The result from convolving the image with a Gaussian smoothing filter using separable filtering is an array of smoothed data , S i , j G i , j ; I i , j ( 107 ) where is the spread of the Gaussian and controls the degree of smoothing . The gradient of the smoothed array S [ i , j ] can be computed using the 2 x 2 first-difference approximations ( Subsection relating to Gradient ) to produce two arrays P [ i , j ] and Q [ i , j ] for the x and y partial derivatives : P i , j S i , j 1 S i , j S i 1 , j 1 S i 1 , j / 2 ( 108 ) Q i , j S i , j S i 1 , j S i , j 1 S i 1 , j 1 / 2 ( 109 ) The finite differences are averaged over the 2 x 2 square so that the x and y partial derivatives are computed at the same point in the image . The magnitude and orientation of the gradient can be computed from the standard formulas for rectangular-to-polar conversion : M i , j P i , j Q i , j ( 110 ) i , j arctan Q i , j , P i , j ( 111 ) 2 2 where the arctan function takes two arguments and generates an angle over the entire circle of possible directions . These functions must be computed efficiently , preferably without using floating-point arithmetic [ 45-48 ] . Finally , the Canny Edge Detection Algorithm is : - Smooth the image with a Gaussian filter . - Compute the gradient magnitude and orientation using finite-difference approximations for the partial derivatives . - Apply nonmaxima suppression to the gradient magnitude . - Use the double thresholding algorithm to detect and link edges . To see in detail the items of the algorithm , we recommend reading Chapter 5 of [ 204 ] . In Fig. 39 , we can see original image of Agus in Miami ( top ) , Roberts ( middle-left ) , Sobel ( middle-right ) , Prewitt ( down-left ) , and finally , Canny ( down-right ) . In [ 204 ] , the authors compare the different edge detectors discussed so far . The comparisons are presented according to the first three steps described at the beginning of this section : filtering , enhancement , and detection . The estimation step is not be shown there . In addition , They give results of edge detection on noisy images for two specific cases-one utilizing the filtering step and one omitting the filtering step . Results of edge detection using varying amounts of filtering are also be given . In fact , shows results of all the edge detection methods discussed so far , from the simple 1 x 2 gradient approximation up to the Prewitt operator . Fig. 39 Original image ( top ) Agus in Miami , and the edge detectors : Roberts ( middle-left ) , Sobel ( middle-right ) , Prewitt ( down-left ) , and Canny ( down-right ) . Such figure shows the results of the edge detectors when the filtering step is omitted . Note the many false edges detected as a result of the noise . 3 Quantum Spectral Analysis ( QuSA ) 3.1 In the beginning ... Schrödinger's equation 3.1.1 Qubits and Bloch's sphere The bit is the fundamental concept of classical computation and classical information . Quantum computation and quantum information are built upon an analogous concept , the quantum bit , or qubit for short . In this section we introduce the properties of single and multiple qubits , comparing and contrasting their properties to those of classical bits [ 1 ] . The difference between bits and qubits is that a qubit can be in a state other than 0 or 1 [ 51 , 52 ] . It is also possible to form linear combinations of states , often called superpositions : 0 1 , where ( 112 ) is called wave function , 2 2 1 , with the states 0 and 1 are understood as different polarization states of light . Besides , a column vector is called a ket vector T , where , ( • ) T means transpose of ( • ) , while a row vector is called a bra vector . The numbers and are complex numbers , although for many purposes not much is lost by thinking of them as real numbers . Put another way , the state of a qubit is a vector in a two-dimensional complex vector space . The special states 0 and 1 are known as Computational Basis States ( CBS ) , and form an orthonormal basis for this vector space , being 1 0 0 and 1 0 1 One picture useful in thinking about qubits is the following geometric representation . Because 2 2 1 , we may rewrite Eq. ( 112 ) as ei cos 0 ei sin 1 ei cos 0 cos i sin sin 1 2 2 2 2 Fig. 40 Bloch's Sphere . ( 113 ) where 0 , 0 2 . We can ignore the factor of ei out the front , because it has no observable effects [ 1 ] , and for that reason we can effectively write cos 0 ei sin 1 2 2 ( 114 ) The numbers and define a point on the unit three-dimensional sphere , as shown in Fig. 40 . Quantum mechanics is mathematically formulated in Hilbert space or projective Hilbert space . The space of pure states of a quantum system is given by the one-dimensional subspaces of the corresponding Hilbert space ( or the "" points "" of the projective Hilbert space ) . In a two-dimensional Hilbert space this is simply the complex projective line , which is a geometrical sphere . This sphere is often called the Bloch's sphere ; it provides a useful means of visualizing the state of a single qubit , and often serves as an excellent testbed for ideas about quantum computation and quantum information . Many of the operations on single qubits which can be seen in [ 1 ] are neatly described within the Bloch's sphere picture . However , it must be kept in mind that this intuition is limited because there is no simple generalization of the Bloch's sphere known for multiple qubits [ 1 , 51 , 52 ] . Except in the case where is one of the ket vectors 0 or 1 the representation is unique . The parameters and , re-interpreted as spherical coordinates , specify a point a sin cos sin sin cos on the unit sphere in 3 ( according to Eq. 113 ) . Fig. 41 Details of the poles , as well as an example of parallel and several qubit states on the sphere . Figure 41 highlights all components ( details ) concerning the Bloch's sphere , namely Spin down = = 0 = 1 = qubit basis state = North Pole 0 and Spin up = = 1 = 0 = qubit basis state = South Pole 1 Both poles play a fundamental role in the development of the quantum computing [ 1 ] . Besides , a very important concept to the affections of the development quantum information processing , in general , i.e. , the notion of latitude ( parallel ) on the Bloch's sphere is hinted . Such parallel as shown in green in Fig. 41 , where we can see the complete coexistence of poles , parallels and meridians on the sphere , including computational basis states ( 0 , 1 ) . The poles and the parallels form the geometric bases of criteria and logic needed to implement any quantum gate or circuit . 3.1.2 Schrödinger's equation and unitary operators A quantum state can be transformed into another state by a unitary operator , symbolized as U ( U : H → H on a Hilbert space H , being called an unitary operator if it satisfies U † U UU † I , where • † is the adjoint of ( • ) , and I is the identity matrix ) , which is required to preserve inner products : If we transform and to U and U , then UU . In particular , unitary operators preserve lengths : UU 1 , if is on the Bloch's sphere ( i.e. , it is a pure state ) . ( 115 ) On the other hand , the unitary operator satisfies the following differential equation known as the Schrödinger equation [ 1 , 10-12 ] : ˆ d i H U t U t dt ( 116 ) where Ĥ represents the Hamiltonian matrix of the Schrödinger equation , i 2 1 , and is the reduced Planck constant , i.e. , h / 2 . Multiplying both sides of Eq. ( 116 ) by 0 and setting t U t 0 ( 117 ) yields ˆ d i H t t dt ( 118 ) The solution to the Schrödinger equation is given by the matrix exponential of the Hamiltonian matrix : U t e ˆt i H ( if Hamiltonian is not time dependent ) ( 119 ) ( if Hamiltonian is time dependent ) ( 120 ) and i t Ĥ dt U t e 0 Thus the probability amplitudes evolve across time according to the following equation : t e ˆ t i H 0 ( if Hamiltonian is not time dependent ) ( 121 ) ( if Hamiltonian is time dependent ) ( 122 ) or i t Ĥ dt t e 0 0 The Eq. ( 121 ) is the main piece in building circuits , gates and quantum algorithms , being U who represents such elements [ 1 ] . Finally , the discrete version of Eq. ( 118 ) is n 1 ˆ i H n , ( 123 ) for a time dependent ( or not ) Hamiltonian , being n the discrete time . 3.1.3 Quantum Circuits , Gates , and Algorithms ; Reversibility and Quantum Measurement As we can see in Fig. 42 , and remember Eq. ( 117 ) , the quantum algorithm ( identical case to circuits and gates ) viewed as a transfer ( or mapping input-to-output ) has two types on output : a ) the result of algorithm ( circuit of gate ) , i.e. , n b ) part of the input 0 , i.e. , ( underlined 0 ) , in order to impart reversibility to the circuit , which is a 0 critical need in quantum computing [ 1 ] . Fig. 42 Module to measuring , quantum algorithm and the elements needs to its physical implementation . Besides , we can see clearly a module for measuring n with their respective output , i.e. , n pm ( or , n post-measurement ) , and a number of elements needed for the physical implementation of the quantum algorithm ( circuit or gate ) , namely : control , ancilla and trash [ 1 ] . In Fig. 42 as well as in the rest of them ( unlike [ 1 ] ) a single fine line represents a wire carrying 1 qubit or N qubits ( qudit ) , interchangeably , while a single thick line represents a wire carrying 1 or N classical bits , interchangeably too . However , the mentioned concept of reversibility is closely related to energy consumption , and hence to the Landauer's Principle [ 1 ] . On the other hand , computational complexity studies the amount of time and space required to solve a computational problem . Another important computational resource is energy . In [ 1 ] , the authors show the energy requirements for computation . Surprisingly , it turns out that computation , both classical and quantum , can in principle be done without expending any energy ! Energy consumption in computation turns out to be deeply linked to the reversibility of the computation . In other words , it is inexcusable the need of the presence to the output of quantum gate [ 1 ] . 0 On the other hand , in quantum mechanics , measurement is a non-trivial and highly counter-intuitive process . Firstly , because measurement outcomes are inherently probabilistic , i.e. regardless of the carefulness in the preparation of a measurement procedure , the possible outcomes of such measurement will be distributed according to a certain probability distribution . Secondly , once the measurement has been performed , a quantum system in unavoidably altered due to the interaction with the measurement apparatus . Consequently , for an arbitrary quantum system , pre-measurement and post-measurement quantum states are different in general [ 1 ] . Postulate . Quantum measurements are described by a set of measurement operators M ̂ m , index m labels the different measurement outcomes , which act on the state space of the system being measured . Measurement outcomes correspond to values of observables , such as position , energy and momentum , which are Hermitian operators [ 1 ] corresponding to physically measurable quantities . Let be the state of the quantum system immediately before the measurement . Then , the probability that result m occurs is given by ˆ † M ˆ p ( m ) M m m ( 124 ) and the post-measurement quantum state is pm M ̂ m ˆ † M ˆ M m ( 125 ) m Operators M ̂ m must satisfy the completeness relation of Eq. ( 126 ) , because that guarantees that probabilities will sum to one ; see Eq. ( 127 ) [ 1 ] : m m ˆ † M ˆ I M m m ( 126 ) ˆ † M ˆ M m p ( m ) 1 m m ( 127 ) Let us work out a simple example . Assume we have a polarized photon with associated polarization orientations ' horizontal ' and ' vertical ' . The horizontal polarization direction is denoted by 0 and the vertical polarization direction is denoted by 1 . Thus , an arbitrary initial state for our photon can be described by the quantum state 0 1 ( remembering Subsection 3.1.1 ) , where and are complex numbers constrained by the normalization condition 2 2 . 2 1 , and 0 , 1 is the computational basis spanning Now , we construct two measurement operators M ̂ 0 0 0 and M ̂ 1 1 1 and two measurement outcomes a0 , a1 . Then , the full observable used for measurement in this experiment is M ̂ a0 0 0 a1 1 1 . According to Postulate , the probabilities of obtaining outcome a0 or outcome a1 are given by p ( a0 ) 2 and p ( a1 ) 2 . Corresponding post-measurement quantum states are as follows : if outcome = a0 , then pm 0 ; if outcome = a1 then 1 . pm 3.2 QuSA properly speaking The Eq. ( 118 ) represents the Schrödinger equation , which we are going to write it in a better way , so as to simplify notation t i t t ( 128 ) where t d t and t Ĥ t , being the angular frequency matrix , and Ĥ the Hamiltonian dt matrix . Both time dependents , simultaneously , i.e. , at each instant , we will have a matrix . On the other hand , depends on the respective – non relativistic – system , that is to say , where the most general form for one qubit is t t 11 21 t 12 t 22 t ( 129 ) Two interesting particular cases are represented by t t 1 0 2 t 0 ( 130 ) and t t 0 0 1 t t 0 0 t I t 1 ( 131 ) being I the identity matrix . Thus , replacing Eq. ( 131 ) in Eq. ( 128 ) , we will have , t i t t . ( 132 ) Now , we multiply both sides ( by left ) of Eq. ( 132 ) by t , t t i t t t . ( 133 ) Finally , t results , t i t t . t t ( 134 ) Equation ( 134 ) represents QuSA for the monotone case . Now , and considering Equations ( 128 ) and ( 129 ) , where represents an irreducible matrix , then , we are going to multiply both sides ( by right ) of Eq. ( 128 ) by t , therefore , t t i t t t ( 135 ) Finally , t results , t i t t t t i t t † 1 ( 136 ) where t † t t t 1 ( is the pseudoinverse of t ) ( 137 ) Equation ( 136 ) represents QuSA for the multitone case . 3.3 Frequency at time ( FAT ) Once we have arrived at the classical world , we can then apply an adaptation QuSA to signals and images , with and without overlap of samples or pixels , respectively . Such adaptation is called frequency at time ( FAT ) . 3.3.1 For signals Case with overlap – In the classical version of Eq. ( 134 ) we are going to replace qubits by samples of a real signal , therefore , inner products disappear , and the classical version of Eq. ( 134 ) in a symbolic form is t i S t , 1 S t i S t t S t where S t S t , and S is a signal defined in t ( 138 ) N , being N the size of the signal , and the imaginary angular frequency . Appealing ( for simplicity ) to the discrete version of , we will have , i S. / S , ( 139 ) where "" . / "" represents the infixed version of Hadamard's quotient of vectors [ 80 ] , S s0 s1 s2 sN 1 is a signal of N samples , S s0 s1 s2 sN 1 is its derivative , and 0 1 2 N 1 . That is to say , for each sample , we will have , n i sn / sn n 0 , N 1 , being : sn sn1 sn1 / 2 , and n the discrete time . ( 140 ) Equation ( 140 ) is the discrete version of in its most inapplicable form , given that this is not applicable in cases where the denominator is zero ( although unlike the FFT , has solution ) , without mentioning that is an imaginary operator to be applied to real signals . Therefore , this form is called raw version . To overcome this drawback , we use equalized and / or averaged versions , as the following , eq i Seq . / Seq , where subscript "" eq "" means equalized . In general , S is equalized inside [ 1 , 2 ] as follows : ( 141 ) - calculate maximum of S , max ( S ) - calculate minimum of S , min ( S ) - Seq S min S / max S min S 1 - calculate Seq - calculate eq While the averaged form will be , av i S / avg S , ( 142 ) where avg S is the average of S. In both cases the signal must be enlarged ( padded ) . For example , we see this in more detail in the third version , um i Sum . / Sum , ( 143 ) where the subscript um means one-dimensional mask . That is to say , in order , we will have , S s0 s1 s2 sN 1 ( 144 ) of length N , with masks of length M ( odd number ) , and side surplus ( padding ) of length L ( M 1 ) / 2 , finally , we define four new elements , such as the padded S S padding s2 L s2 L s1 , s0 s1 s2 sN 1 , sN sN 12 L sN 12 L s1 , S , sN , ( 145 ) of length N ' N 2L N M 1 , and for each n 2 L , N 2 L generic sample , we will have sn , L snL snL1 sn sn L1 sn L , ( 146 ) of length M. Finally , we are going to define two additional masks of length M D 1 1 1 1 1 / M , ( scaling operator ) ( 147 ) and 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 / M-1 , ( wavelet operator ) ( 148 ) with , sum , n sn , L DT ( approximation band ) ( 149 ) where superscript T means transpose , and sum , n sn , L T ( detail band ) ( 150 ) If M = 3 , then sum , n will be the traditional discrete derivative case ( see the same row of Eq. 140 ) , i.e. , sum , n sn1 sn1 / 2 , while , sum , n sn 1 sn sn 1 / 3 . These are a special case of what we have seen above . Finally , for each sample n , we will have , the instantaneous version of Eq. ( 143 ) in term of Equations ( 149 ) and ( 150 ) , um , n i sum , n / sum , n , ( 151 ) n 0 , N 1 . On the other hand , and to save the fact that is an imaginary operator to be applied to real signals ( in all four versions ) , we will use another version known as frequency at time ( FAT ) for all mentioned versions : 1 . conj 2 1 i S. / S. conj i S. / S 2 1 S. / S 2 f for Eq. ( 139 ) ( 152 ) Being f / 2 f 0 f1 f 2 f N 1 , the frequencies . Remember that , this version ( the original ) depends on a possible denominator equal to zero , therefore , we will use the next versions : 1 eq . conj eq 2 1 i Seq . / Seq . conj i Seq . / Seq 2 1 Seq . / Seq 2 f eq for Eq. ( 141 ) ( 153 ) 1 av . conj av 2 f av i S. conj i S 1 2 1 S / avg S 2 for Eq. ( 142 ) ( 154 ) avg S and finally , one version more based on Eq. ( 143 ) , that is to say , 1 um . conj um 2 1 i Sum . / Sum . conj i Sum . / Sum 2 1 Sum . / Sum 2 f um ( 155 ) Because usually a ( or more ) denominator of Eq. ( 151 ) is zero , then here also it is necessary to use a procedure of equalization or normalization as in the previous cases . Examples - Next , we will implement the four seen cases of FAT to a signal as shown in Fig. 43 , which is an electrocardiographic ( ECG ) signal of 80 pulses per second . Top of Fig. 43 shows the ECG , while its down shows the waterfall of ECG signal , where the positive peaks are clear , the negative peaks are dark , and the intermediates are gray . On the other hand , Fig. 44 shows the same signal of Fig. 43 , i.e. , ECG of 80 cycles per second , with 256 samples per cycle , however , in this case , the six cells ( sub-figures ) contain : ECG signal in blue , and FAT in red with their respective scales , i.e. , ECG scale in blue to the left and FAT scale in red to the right . It is important to mention that the bottom of each figure shows a sequence of witness bars . The distribution of such witness bars is in each case the FAT itself , that is to say , the accumulation of said bars has to do with the Fig. 43 Top : electrocardiographic signal . Down : its waterfall . flanks of the original signal , in other words , the most pronounced flanks accumulate more bars , while less steep flanks accumulate less bars . This indicates us that the bars are witnessing an indirect flank detection , and thanks to FAT , and the existing spectral components thanks to the steep flank . Finally , top-left : equalized version of Eq. ( 153 ) ; top-right : averaged version of Eq. ( 154 ) ; middle-left : equalized one-dimensional mask with size equal to 3 ; middle-right : averaged one-dimensional mask with size equal to 3 ; down-left : equalized one-dimensional mask with size equal to 33 ; and , down-right : averaged onedimensional mask with size equal to 33 . The last four mentioned sub-figures are based on Eq. ( 155 ) . As we can see in Fig. 44 , for a size of mask equal to 3 , images of the first and second rows are identical , with the same profilometry . The change occurs when we increase the size of the one-dimensional mask . This increase is distinguished in the transition between the second and third row of the Fig. 44 , when the size changes from 3 to 33 . In this last case , the FAT loses resolution and consequently for this reason it loss texture details of signal , and therefore , the focus is on grosser aspects relating to the flanks ( low frequencies or approximations ) . In other words , the increase in mask size desensitizes the process regarding the details of the signal ( high frequencies ) . In consequence , we say that FAT is a flank detector , with adjustable sensitivity by the size of the mask . This sensitivity is directly proportional to the resolution , i.e. , it reacts with the spectral Fig. 44 In all of sub-figures , we have : ECG signal in blue , and FAT in red with their respective scales , i.e. , ECG scale in blue to the left and FAT scale in red to the right . Besides , ECG signal has 80 cycles per second , with 256 samples . It is important to mention that the bottom of each figure shows a sequence of witness bars . The distribution of such witness bars is each case the FAT itself , that is to say , the accumulation of said bars has to do with the flanks of the original signal , in other words , the most pronounced flanks accumulate more bars , while less steep flanks accumulate less bars . This indicates us that the bars are witnessing an indirect flank detection , and thanks to FAT , and the existing spectral components thanks to the steep flank . Finally , top-left : equalized version of Eq. ( 153 ) ; top-right : averaged version of Eq. ( 154 ) ; middle-left : equalized one-dimensional mask with size equal to 3 ; middle-right : averaged onedimensional mask with size equal to 3 ; down-left : equalized one-dimensional mask with size equal to 33 ; and , downright : averaged one-dimensional mask with size equal to 33 . components which are represented by the degree of inclination of flanks in time . Finally , in Fig. 44 , we can notice that the FAT reaches the maximum where the signal has more pronounced flanks . A fourth version is due to a change in the Schrödinger equation , i.e. , Eq. ( 118 ) . We may reexpress this equation , to first order in the infinitesimal quantity dt , as ˆ t dt iH t dt I t I i t dt t ( 156 ) The operator U t dt , t I i t dt is unitary [ 205 ] ; because is self-adjoint it satisfies U † U = 1 to linear order in dt . On the other hand , we can reexpress Eq. ( 140 ) as follow n i sn 1 sn 1 2sn n 0 , N 1 , being n the discrete time , ( 157 ) where the signal should be padded . With similar considerations to those carried out from Eq. ( 128 ) to ( 157 ) , we arrive at n i sn 1 sn sn n 0 , N 1 , being n the discrete time , ( 158 ) from Eq. ( 156 ) . Here , too , the signal must be padded . The general case for the complete signal diff i diff S / S , ( 159 ) being diff ( • ) the imaginary part of numerator of Eq. ( 158 ) . This function is the same built-in function diff ( • ) of MATLAB ® [ 49 ] . Therefore , the original FAT for this equation will be 1 diff . conj diff 2 1 i diff S. / S. conj i diff S. / S 2 1 diff S. / S 2 f diff for Eq. ( 159 ) ( 160 ) Here , too , this version ( the original ) depends on a possible denominator equal to zero , therefore , we will use the next versions : 1 diff , eq . conj diff , eq 2 1 i diff Seq . / S eq . conj i diff S eq . / S eq 2 1 diff Seq . / Seq 2 f diff , eq ( It is equalized like Eq. 141 ) ( 161 ) f diff , av 1 diff , av . conj diff , av 2 i diff S. conj i diff S 1 2 1 diff S / avg S 2 ( averaged ) ( 162 ) avg S Figure 45 shows both version , i.e. , FAT for Eq. ( 161 ) and ( 162 ) for the ECG signal of Fig. 44 . We can see that both sides of Fig. 45 has the same profilometry of first and second row of Fig. 44 . Fig. 45 Left : equalized version , and right : averaged version . If we had to perform a non-linear sampling of the original signal , FAT tell us what is the optimal number of samples and where to put them , all through the witness bars . It is like a pulse-position modulation ( PPM ) [ 206 ] . This procedure is much more efficient than a linear sampling . Summing-up , FAT represents the distribution of the witness bars . Case without overlap – Being S s0 s1 s2 , sn , sN 1 , n 0 , N 1 , being n the discrete time . Thus , we will have two components L1 l0 , l1 ,, lk ,, l N 1 2 sn sn 1 s0 s1 s2 s3 ,,,, 2 2 2 , ( approximation subband ) ( 163 ) ( detail subband ) ( 164 ) sN 2 sN 1 2 and H 1 h0 , h1 ,, hk ,, hN 1 2 s sn 1 s s s2 s3 0 1 ,,, n , 2 2 2 N k 0 , 1 , 2 L0 S , s N 2 s N 1 2 being lk sn sn 1 and hk sn sn1 , with 2 2 ( 165 ) L1 and H1 are the first level subbands of Haar basis wavelet . L1 is the approximation subband ( low frequency ) and H1 is the detail subband ( high frequency ) . L0 is the basal level or original signal . Then , QuSA will be , i H 1 . / L1 , ( 166 ) while , FAT is , 1 . conj 2 1 i H 1 . / L1 . conj i H 1 . / L1 2 1 H 1 . / L1 2 f ( 167 ) As we see in the next section , it is very useful also another version of FAT for the non-overlapping case , 1 imag 2 1 H 1 . / L1 2 f ( 168 ) where , imag ( • ) means imaginary part of ( • ) . On the other hand , both of them , have the same problem , i.e. , they depends on a possible denominator equal to zero , therefore , we will use the next versions : 1 ) Equalization : we are going to equalize S between 1 and 2 ( Seq ) , like Eq. ( 141 ) , and then , we will built 1 H eq , L1eq with it , i.e. , eq , and hence , 1 eq . conj eq 2 1 i H eq1 . / L1eq . conj i H eq1 . / L1eq 2 1 1 H eq . / L1eq 2 f eq ( 169 ) and 1 imag eq 2 1 1 H eq . / L1eq 2 f eq ( 170 ) 2 ) Averaging : we will proceed to show this version directly starting with QuSA , av i H 1 / avg L1 , ( 171 ) Then , FAT will be , f av 1 av . conj av 2 1 2 i H 1 . conj i H 1 avg L1 1 H 1 / avg L1 2 ( 172 ) or 1 imag av 2 1 H 1 / avg L1 2 f av ( 173 ) Finally , none of non-overlapping version needs padding . Examples - Next , we will implement the four seen cases of FAT on an ECG signal of 256 samples . As we can see in Fig. 46 , the first row show us in red both versions of FAT for the equalized case . However , the 1 second row show us L1eq in blue and H eq in red . The second version of FAT will be very useful in Section of 1 Applications , for signals as well as for images . Apparently , the second version of FAT and H eq are identical , however , they have the same profilometry with the same scale . L1eq has the same profilometry of the original signal with different scales . Besides , all of them have the half number of samples that original signal , i.e. , 128 instead of 256 . Fig. 46 Equalized versions . Top-Left : first version of FAT ( Eq. 169 ) , top-right : second version of FAT ( Eq. 170 ) , downleft : 1 1 L1eq , and , down-right : H eq . Second version of FAT and H eq are apparently identical , however , they have the same profilometry with the same scale . L1eq has the same profilometry of the original signal with different scales . Besides , all of them have the half number of samples that original signal , i.e. , 128 instead of 256 . Fig. 47 Averaged versions . Top-Left : first version of FAT ( Eq. 172 ) , top-right : second version of FAT ( Eq. 173 ) , downleft : 1 1 L1no , and , down-right : H no . Second version of FAT and H no have different scales , however , they have the same profilometry . L1no has the same profilometry of the original signal with the same scale . Besides , here too , all of them have the half number of samples that original signal . On the other hand , the first row of Fig. 47 show us in red both versions of FAT for the averaged case . 1 However , the second row show us L1no in blue and H no in red . Here too , the second version of FAT will be very useful in Section of Applications , for signals as well as for images . Second version of FAT and 1 H no have different scales , however , they have the same profilometry . Besides , L1no has the same profilometry of the original signal with the same scale . Here too , all of them have the half number of samples that original signal . 3.3.2 For images Case with overlap – In the classical version of Eq. ( 134 ) but in the 2D case , and for each color ( i.e. , RGB ) , we are going to replace qubits by pixels of a real image , therefore , the classical version of Eq. ( 134 ) is represented by three directional components , depending on the direction of each derivative for each color . In this context , we will have four possibilities to make FAT analysis over an image with overlap , i.e. , with : a ) segmental mask and M = 3 , b ) square mask and M = 3 , c ) segmental mask and M > 3 , and d ) square mask and M > 3 In all cases , the image is padded depending on the value of M , i.e. , if the image ( e.g. , red channel : IR ) has a ROW-by-COL size , then , IR , P ( padded IR ) will have a ( ROW + 2L ) - by - ( COL + 2L ) size , where L = ( M-1 ) / 2 . Therefore , the original image IR will be in the middle of the padded image IR , P , which will have four lateral margins of L size to each side of IR composed exclusively by zeros . Segmental mask and M = 3 : in this case , we will have two mask , namely : NH 1 0 1 , ( horizontal mask ) , and ( 174 ) 2 NV N HT , ( vertical mask ) . ( 175 ) The procedure begins with a two-dimensional convolution ( first horizontal and then , vertical rafters ) between NH and IR , P , i.e. , I H N H I R , P ( 176 ) After that , we continue with another two-dimensional convolution ( first vertical and then , horizontal rafters ) between NV and IR , P , i.e. , IV NV I R , P ( 177 ) Finally , I is obtained via Pythagoras between IH , and IV , that is to say , I I H2 IV2 ( 178 ) Then , we obtain the two-dimensional version of Eq. ( 139 ) , that is , i I. / I , ( 179 ) While , for each pixel , we will have , r , c i I r , c / I r , c r 1 , ROW , and c 1 , COL ( 180 ) Equation ( 180 ) is the discrete version of in its most inapplicable form , given that this is not applicable in cases where the denominator is zero ( although unlike the FFT , has solution ) , without mentioning that is an imaginary operator to be applied to real images . Therefore , this form is called raw version . To overcome this drawback , we use equalized and / or averaged versions ( like signal case ) , as the following , eq i I eq . / I eq , ( 181 ) where subscript "" eq "" means equalized . In general , we will pass each pixel of each channel of color of I from [ 0 , 255 ] to [ 1 , 256 ] . While the averaged form will be , av i I / avg I , ( 182 ) where avg I is the average of I. In both cases the image must be enlarged ( padded ) as we explained before . For example , we see this in more detail in the third version , bm i I / I bm , ( 183 ) where the subscript bm means two-dimensional mask . Here too , we define two segmental mask , DH 111 , ( horizontal mask ) , and ( 184 ) 3 DV DHT , ( vertical mask ) . ( 185 ) The procedure begins with a two-dimensional convolution ( first horizontal and then , vertical rafters ) between DH and IR , P , i.e. , I H DH I R , P ( 186 ) After that , we continue with another two-dimensional convolution ( first vertical and then , horizontal rafters ) between SV and IR , P , i.e. , IV DV I R , P ( 187 ) Finally , I bm is obtained via Pythagoras between IH , and IV , that is to say , I bm I H2 IV2 ( 188 ) On the other hand , and to save the fact that is an imaginary operator to be applied to real images ( in all four versions ) , we will use another version known as frequency at time ( FAT ) for all mentioned versions : 1 . conj 2 1 i I. / I. conj i I. / I 2 1 I. / I 2 f for Eq. ( 179 ) ( 189 ) Being f / 2 a matrix of ROW-by-COL frequencies . Remember that , this version ( the original ) depends on a possible denominator equal to zero , therefore , we will use the next versions : 1 eq . conj eq 2 1 i I eq . / I eq . conj i I eq . / I eq 2 1 I eq . / I eq 2 f eq f av for Eq. ( 181 ) ( 190 ) 1 av . conj av 2 i I. conj i I 1 2 1 I / avg I 2 for Eq. ( 182 ) avg I and finally , one version more based on Eq. ( 183 ) , that is to say , ( 191 ) 1 um . conj um 2 1 i I. / I bm . conj i I. / I bm 2 1 I. / I bm 2 f um ( 192 ) Because usually a ( or more ) denominator of Eq. ( 183 ) is zero , then here also it is necessary to use a procedure of equalization or normalization as in the previous cases . Examples - Next , we will implement the seen case . First , we begin with the selected color image , that is to say : Angelina , a picture of 1920-by-1080 pixel with 24 bpp . See Fig. 48 . Fig. 48 Angelina : 1920-by-1080 pixels , with 24 bpp . Figure 49 show us the FAT over Angelina for segmental mask with M = 3 and overlap , where the first column is for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row represents the raw case , second row the equalized case , third row the averaged case , and fourth row the two-dimensional mask case . In Fig. 49 , we can see the texture and edges of the different versions of FAT . The same set of images show us Regions of Interest ( ROIs ) , which include ergodic areas with a notable impact in the filtering ( denoising ) and compression contexts . On the other hand , the FAT by each color indicate us the weight of this one over the main morphological characteristics of the image . Although the scale is different , the twelve images of Fig. 49 have the same resolution of Fig. 48 , that is to say , FIL-by-COL . Besides , in all these images we have manipulated the brightness and contrast for better display scroll of them . Finally , FAT permit us to observe spectral components per pixel by color with a particular emphasis in texture and edges , which are notably important in applications such as visual intelligence for computer vision , image compression , superresolution , forensic analysis of images , filtering ( denoising ) , image restoration and enhancement [ 45-48 ] . Fig. 49 FAT over Angelina , segmental mask with M = 3 and overlap : first column for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row for raw case , second row for equalized case , third row for averaged case , and fourth row for two-dimensional mask case . Square mask and M = 3 : in this case , we will have one mask alone , namely : 1 1 0 N 1 0 1 / 6 0 1 1 ( 193 ) The procedure begins with a two-dimensional convolution ( first horizontal and then , vertical rafters ) between N and IR , P , i.e. , I N I R , P ( 194 ) Then , we obtain the two-dimensional version of Eq. ( 139 ) newly , that is , i I. / I , ( 195 ) While , for each pixel , we will have , r , c i I r , c / I r , c r 1 , ROW , and c 1 , COL ( 196 ) Equation 196 has the same problem of Eq. ( 180 ) , i.e. , eventual cases where denominator is zero . Thus , to overcome this drawback , we use equalized and / or normalized versions like Equations ( 181 ) and ( 182 ) with the same criterion . A third version based on Eq. ( 183 ) can be implemented via a square mask , where 1 1 1 D 1 1 1 / 9 1 1 1 ( 197 ) The procedure consists in a two-dimensional convolution ( first horizontal and then , vertical rafters ) between D and IR , P , i.e. , Ibm D I R , P ( 198 ) Here too , and to save the fact that is an imaginary operator to be applied to real images ( in all four versions ) , we will use another version known as frequency at time ( FAT , i.e. , its two-dimensional version ) for all mentioned versions : 1 . conj 2 1 i I. / I. conj i I. / I 2 1 I. / I 2 f for Eq. ( 179 ) ( 199 ) Being f / 2 ( newly ) a matrix of ROW-by-COL frequencies . Remember that , this version ( the original ) depends on a possible denominator equal to zero , therefore , we will use the next versions : 1 eq . conj eq 2 1 i I eq . / I eq . conj i I eq . / I eq 2 1 I eq . / I eq 2 f eq f av for Eq. ( 181 ) ( 200 ) 1 av . conj av 2 i I. conj i I 1 2 1 I / avg I 2 avg I for Eq. ( 182 ) ( 201 ) and finally , one version more based on Eq. ( 183 ) , in which the denominator arises from the convolution of a mask with the original image , that is to say , 1 um . conj um 2 1 i I. / I bm . conj i I. / I bm 2 1 I. / I bm 2 f um ( 202 ) Fig. 50 FAT over Angelina , square mask with M = 3 and overlap : first column for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row for raw case , second row for equalized case , third row for averaged case , and fourth row for two-dimensional mask case . Here , we can make the same considerations that we make after Eq. ( 192 ) regarding to Eq. ( 183 ) and their possible denominators equal to zero in it . Figure 50 show us the FAT over Angelina for square mask with M = 3 and overlap , where the first column is for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row represents the raw case , second row the equalized case , third row the averaged case , and fourth row the twodimensional mask case . Otherwise , considerations about the Fig. 50 are similar to the previous case . Fig. 51 FAT over Angelina , segmental mask with M > 3 ( in fact , M = 7 ) and overlap : first column for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row for raw case , second row for equalized case , third row for averaged case , and fourth row for two-dimensional mask case . Segmental mask and M > 3 : in this case , only it is necessary correct Equations ( 174 ) and ( 184 ) , i.e. : NH 1 1 0 1 1 , M 1 ( horizontal mask ) ( 203 ) with ( M-1 ) / 2 repetitions of -1 , only one 0 , and ( M-1 ) / 2 repetitions of 1 , and DH 1 1 , ( horizontal mask ) , ( 204 ) M with M repetitions of 1 . Otherwise , it 's all the same to the case of M = 3 . Figure 51 show us the FAT over Angelina for segmental mask with M > 3 ( in fact , M = 7 ) and overlap , where the first column is for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row represents the raw case , second row the equalized case , third row the averaged case , and fourth row the two-dimensional mask case . Figure 51 shows us similar characteristics to previous case . Square mask and M > 3 : in this case , only it is necessary correct Equations ( 193 ) and ( 197 ) , i.e. : ( 205 ) with M M 1 elements equal to -1 , M elements equal to 0 , and M M 1 elements equal to 1 , and 2 2 1 D 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 / M 2 1 ( 206 ) with M 2 elements equal to 1 . Otherwise , it 's all the same to the case of M = 3 . Figure 52 show us the FAT over Angelina for square mask with M > 3 ( in fact , M = 7 ) and overlap , where the first column is for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row represents the raw case , second row the equalized case , third row the averaged case , and fourth row the two-dimensional mask case . As in the previous cases , Fig. 52 shows us similar characteristics to previous cases . This shows us the consistency and coherence of the FAT as a method for spectral analysis . Fig. 52 FAT over Angelina , square mask with M > 3 ( in fact , M = 7 ) and overlap : first column for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row for raw case , second row for equalized case , third row for averaged case , and fourth row for two-dimensional mask case . Case without overlap – Being I = [ IR , IG , IB ] , that is to say , the three color channels of the original image I , if we choose a color channel at time , e.g. , I R _ r , c r0 1 , ROW , c0 1 , COL , thus , we will have four 0 0 components ( subbands ) LL0R _ r0 , c0 I R _ r0 , c0 LL1R _ r1 , c1 ( 207 ) LL0R _ 2 r0 1 , 2c0 1 LL0R _ 2 r0 1,2 c0 LL0R _ 2 r0 , 2 c0 1 LL0R _ 2 r0 , 2 c0 4 ( approximation subband ) ( 208 ) LH R1 _ r1 , c1 HL1R _ r1 , c1 HH R1 _ r1 , c1 LL0R _ 2 r0 1 , 2c0 1 LL0R _ 2 r0 1 , 2c0 LL0R _ 2 r0 , 2c0 1 LL0R _ 2 r0 , 2c0 ( horizontal detail subband ) ( 209 ) ( vertical detail subband ) ( 210 ) ( diagonal detail subband ) ( 211 ) 4 LL0R _ 2 r0 1 , 2c0 1 LL0R _ 2 r0 1 , 2c0 LL0R _ 2 r0 , 2c0 1 LL0R _ 2 r0 , 2c0 4 LL0R _ 2 r0 1 , 2c0 1 LL0R _ 2 r0 1 , 2c0 LL0R _ 2 r0 , 2c0 1 LL0R _ 2 r0 , 2c0 4 r1 1 , ROW / 2 , c1 1 , COL / 2 LL1 , LH1 , HL1 , and HH1 are the first level subbands of Haar basis wavelet for two dimensions . LL1 is the approximation subband ( low frequency ) , and LH1 , HL1 , and HH1 are the detail subbands ( high frequency ) . LL0 is the basal level or original image . Then QuSA will be , 1R _ H i LH R1 . / LL1R , ( 212 ) 1R _V i HL1R . / LL1R , ( 213 ) 1R _ D i HH R1 . / LL1R , ( 214 ) while , FAT is , f R1_ H 1 1R _ H. conj 1R _ H 2 1 i LH R1 . / LL1R . conj i LH R1 . / LL1R 2 1 LH R1 . / LL1R 2 f R1_V 1 1R _V . conj 1R _V 2 1 i HL1R . / LL1R . conj i HL1R . / LL1R 2 1 HL1R . / LL1R 2 f R1_ D ( 215 ) ( 216 ) 1 1R _ D. conj 1R _ D 2 1 i HH R1 . / LL1R . conj i HH R1 . / LL1R 2 1 HH R1 . / LL1R 2 ( 217 ) As we shall see in the next section , it is very useful also another version of FAT for the non-overlapping case , with a subsampling to the half resolution , which is very useful for applications such as compression and superresolution , f R1_ H 1 imag 1R _ H 2 1 LH R1 . / LL1R 2 ( 218 ) f R1_V 1 imag 1R _V 2 ( 219 ) 1 HL1R . / LL1R 2 f R1_ D 1 imag 1R _ D 2 ( 220 ) 1 HH R1 . / LL1R 2 On the other hand , all of them , have the same problem , i.e. , they depends on a possible denominator equal to zero , therefore , we will use the next versions : Equalization : we are going to equalize IR from [ 0 , 255 ] to [ 1 , 256 ] ( IR_eq ) , like Eq. ( 141 ) , and then , we will built LL1R _ eq , LH R1 _ eq , HL1R _ eq , HH R1 _ eq with it , i.e. , 1R _ H _ eq , 1R _V _ eq , 1R _ D _ eq , and hence , f R1_ H _ eq 1 1R _ H _ eq . conj 1R _ H _ eq 2 1 i LH R1 _ eq . / LL1R _ eq . conj i LH R1 _ eq . / LL1R _ eq 2 1 LH R1 _ eq . / LL1R _ eq 2 f R1_V _ eq 1 1R _V _ eq . conj 1R _V _ eq 2 1 i HL1R _ eq . / LL1R _ eq . conj i HL1R _ eq . / LL1R _ eq 2 1 HL1R _ eq . / LL1R _ eq 2 f R1_ D _ eq ( 221 ) ( 222 ) 1 1R _ D _ eq . conj 1R _ D _ eq 2 1 i HH R1 _ eq . / LL1R _ eq . conj i HH R1 _ eq . / LL1R _ eq 2 1 HH R1 _ eq . / LL1R _ eq 2 ( 223 ) and f R1_ H _ eq 1 imag 1R _ H _ eq 2 ( 224 ) 1 LH R1 _ eq . / LL1R _ eq 2 f R1_V _ eq 1 imag 1R _V _ eq 2 ( 225 ) 1 HL1R _ eq . / LL1R _ eq 2 f R1_ D _ eq 1 imag 1R _ D _ eq 2 1 HH R1 _ eq . / LL1R _ eq 2 ( 226 ) Averaging : we will proceed to show this version directly starting with QuSA , 1R _ H _ av i LH R1 / avg LL1R , ( 227 ) 1R _V _ av i HL1R / avg LL1R , ( 228 ) 1R _ D _ av i HH R1 / avg LL1R , ( 229 ) Then , FAT will be , f R1_ H _ av 1 1R _ H _ av . conj 1R _ H _ av 2 i LH R1 . conj i LH R1 1 2 1 LH R1 / avg LL1R 2 f R1_V _ av i HL1R . conj i HL1R ( 231 ) avg LL1R 1 HL1R / avg LL1R 2 f R1_ D _ av 1 1R _ D _ av . conj 1R _ D _ av 2 1 2 ( 230 ) 1 1R _V _ av . conj 1R _V _ av 2 1 2 avg LL 1 R i HH R1 . conj i HH R1 ( 232 ) avg LL1R 1 HH R1 / avg LL1R 2 or f R1_ H _ av 1 imag 1R _ H _ av 2 ( 233 ) 1 LH R1 / avg LL1R 2 f R1_V _ av 1 imag 1R _V _ av 2 ( 234 ) 1 HL1R / avg LL1R 2 f R1_ D _ av 1 imag 1R _ D _ av 2 ( 235 ) 1 HH R1 / avg LL1R 2 Finally , none of non-overlapping version needs a padding over the original image , with the consequent simplification in coding this implies . Fig. 53 FAT over Angelina , raw case without overlap : first column for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row for horizontal case , second row for vertical case , and third row for diagonal case . Figure 53 shows us the raw case without overlap , where the first column is for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row represents the horizontal case , second row the vertical case , and third row the diagonal case . The nine images inside Fig. 53 have a resolution equal to the half resolution of original image , that is to say , if the resolution of Angelina is ROW-by-COL pixels with 24 bpp , the images of Fig. 53 have a resolution of ROW / 2-by-COL / 2 pixels with 24 bpp . Figure 54 shows us the equalized case without overlap , where the first column is for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Here too , first row represents the horizontal case , second row the vertical case , and third row the diagonal case . Finally , Fig. 55 shows us the averaged case without overlap , where the first column is for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Newly , first row represents the horizontal case , second row the vertical case , and third row the diagonal case . Moreover , the next two figures have remarkable similarities to the previous figure . This fact demonstrates the consistency and coherence of the method . The three figures show clearly the spectral particularities of the image regarding to color and direction ( i.e. , horizontal , vertical , and diagonal ) . Fig. 54 FAT over Angelina , equalized case without overlap : first column for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row for horizontal case , second row for vertical case , and third row for diagonal case . As we can see from the above examples for signals and images , with and without overlap , the effect of indeterminate FAT when the sample ( signal case ) or pixel ( image case ) is a value equal to 0 has solution , through the averaged or equalized versions . Instead , the effect of indeterminate angle ( phase ) when magnitude = 0 in FFT has no solution [ 207-210 ] . Besides , while FFT has no compact support , FAT has it . The latter brings about a lousy treatment of energy by FFT , and an excellent treatment of it by the FAT , to the output of both procedures . Another important comparative aspect between FFT and FAT is the the poor performance of the FFT at the edges ( both signals and images ) , whereby the FFT is replaced by the FCT in applications of compression and filtering . This problem does not exist in FAT . On the other hand , witness bar show that by simple equalization all versions give identical results . Besides , the FAT acts as a detector , which indicates that encode for the case of compression by the witness bar , similar to PPM or nonlinear sampling [ 206 ] . In this sense , it is very convenient to use the bars witness both rows and columns on pictures as a new type of profilometry instead of histograms , or complementing these . Moreover , the advantages of nonlinear sampling are obvious in communications and signal compression . Other relevant advantages of FAT regarding to FFT are : - FAT give us an instant notion of the spectral components of the signal or image . In other words , FAT demonstrates directly responsibility of flanks on the characteristics and values of such spectral components . - FAT is responsive to ergodicity , the regions of interest ( ROIs ) , textures , noises , flanks or edges tilt and their relationship with Shannon and Nyquist for nonlinear sampling for Communications . Fig. 55 FAT over Angelina , averaged case without overlap : first column for red channel , second column for green channel , and third column for blue channel . Besides , first row for horizontal case , second row for vertical case , and third row for diagonal case . - - - FFT loses the link with time . FAT can be calibrated and related with FFT , easily . FAT gives frequency in terms of time , directly , i.e. , f ( t ) = w ( t ) / ( 2 ) . Two-dimensional QuSA / FAT is directional , and via Pythagoras it is consistent with the idea of directional QuSA for images and N-dimensional arrays . In the case of FAT , both the square mask as the segmental mask are ( in themselves ) direct filtering processes ( denoising ) . In FAT , everything is parallelizable : in that case the use of General-purpose graphics processing units ( GPGPUs ) is recommended [ 211 ] , and , in fact , FAT is faster than FFT on them . In FAT , the Hamiltonian's basal tone [ 1 ] is associated with both the spectral bands as the spectral subbands of approximation ( in the case of wavelets ) . This fact makes calibration be considerably easier , as simple as tuning an instrument . Flank detection is equivalent to edge detection in visual intelligence . Besides , FAT detects the sign change and texture and thus assess how compress . Otherwise , FAT permits a nonlinear sampling more efficient than the traditional linear sampling regularly employed , all this from the point of view of the Information Theory [ 1 ] . In fact . QuSA / FAT can perform edge detection equal or better than methods Prewitt , Roberts , Sobel and Canny [ 45-48 ] . Although you can easily prove that all of them derive from QuSA / FAT . Figure 56 shows in symbolic way both complementarity as the perfect linkage between the two theories , i.e. , FFT and QuSA / FAT , instead , Fig. 57 shows us such complementarity and linkage in a rigorous form . Fig. 56 Symbolic relationship between FAT and FFT ( PSD ) . Fig. 57 Rigorous relationship between FAT and FFT ( PSD ) . Both graphs clearly show a quadrature between FFT and FAT via equalization . FFT and FAT give information about the same physical element , i.e. , the frequency , but in a very different way , in fact , FAT is far superior and accurate ( in its ambit ) regarding FFT . Besides , unlike FFT , FAT has compact support . However , both are complementary . Thanks to these two tools ( FFT and FAT ) we can get the whole universe linked to spectral and temporal analysis ( simultaneously ) of a signal , image or video . Therefore , we can locate ( indirectly ) to the FFT at the exact time of the signal by its components . This fact implies a significant advance in the Fourier's theory after almost two and a half centuries . On the other hand , the distribution of the witness bars is consistent with the possibility of locating a particle by the wave function , or rather , the probability distribution that arises from this function . Given the signal y = f ( t ) , the witness bars arise as follows : 1 . N equidistant lines are distributed along the ordinate axis 2 . In those settings where these lines intercept the signal , we identify the projections on the axis of abscissae . At these points we place the witness bars , which ( if the signal is nonlinear ) shall be separated in a not equidistant way depending on the flanks of the signal at each point . This is a nonlinear sampling itself . Equations ( 166-168 ) for one dimensional case ( signals ) and ( 179 , 195 , 212-214 ) for two dimensional case ( images ) represent a type of wavelets known as spectral wavelets , or simply , spectralets . In fact , it is the only case inside wavelets , where high frequency sub-bands ( or detail ) represent spectral components ( unlike traditional wavelet ) . Such is the case that FAT is measured in Hertz . As we see in the next section , the spectralets are also useful in the case of multislicing ( image sequence processing [ 212 ] , and medical images [ 213 ] , such as : Magnetic Resonance and Computer Tomography ) , multi [ 214-217 ] and hyperspectral imagery [ 218-220 ] , and video [ 201 , 202 , 221-226 ] . Besides , they serve to filtering , compression , edge detection and superresolution . For example , for denoising and compression we can use the traditional method of Dohono ( thresholding / shrinkage ) [ 125-127 ] , and the smoothing of coefficients via median filter [ 45-48 ] , directional smoothing [ 162 , 172 ] , or enhanced directional smoothing [ 171 ] on detail subbands . Additionally , spectralets are consistent with the procedure known as splitting of spectral subbands used in the traditional wavelet ( see Section 2.2 ) , which continues recursively on approximation and detail subbands ( Li and Hi for signals ; LLi and LHi , HLi , HHi for images ; and LLLi and LLH i , LHL i , LHH i , HLL i , HLH i , HHL i , HHH i for image sequence processing , being i the level of splitting ) . In fact , Haar is a particular case of spectralets , see Eq ( 173 ) for one-dimensional case , and Eqs ( 227-229 , 233-235 ) for two-dimensional case . Complementary to this , in the next section , we will see a new concept inside wavelet theory called cosine wavelets , or simply , coslets , which will be a key in all those applications like superresolution of biomedical signals , still images for mobile , and video for video too . Some final considerations : - The transition from QuSA to FAT represents the collapse of the wave function , i.e. , from vector to scalar at each moment . - Hamiltonian is real , i.e. , it is n't hermitic for a confined single particle - QuSA / FAT is a time filter - The frequency of a tone ( sine ) is proportional to its higher slope derivative . If it 's a gate , will be infinite . In the latter example , the density of the witness bars is infinite in the flank of the gate . This is very useful for a better understanding of Sampling and Nyquist theorems . - Like the FFT , the FAT will help in the development of new algorithms for signal , image and video compression , replacing or complementing to FFT or DCT in new versions of , MP3 ( audio [ 228 ] ) , JPEG ( images [ 227 ] ) and , H. 264 and VP9 ( video [ 221-226 ] ) . - Unlike FFT , FAT does not require decimation in time or frequency . - For one-dimension FFT has a computational cost of O ( N * log2 ( N )) , and FAT of O ( N ) . - For two-dimensions FFT has a computational cost of O ( N2 * log2 ( N ) 2 ) , and FAT of O ( N2 ) . 4 Simulations 4.1 Prolegomenous to simulations In this section we will see only some possible applications of QuSA / FAT , given that several of them we have seen them in Section 3 , e.g. , spectral analysis . Besides , in addition , we also see some additional tools , which will be very useful in this field . 4.1.1 Important tools Coslets : without loss of generality , we present this new tool for two-dimensional case , however , it is possible to make a generalization to one and three dimensions , in an easy and automatic way . In here , we present a new multirresolution procedure based on DCT using this like a wavelet basis , See Fig. 58 . For example , for an image I of size ROW-by-COL we have , 1 ) Choose image I ( r , c ) / r 1 , ROW c 1 , COL 2 ) J = DCT-2D ( I ) ( 236 ) ll1 hl1 3 ) We obtain four subbands from J lh1 , with hh1 ( 237 ) ROW COL , ll1 r , c / r 1 , c 1 , 2 2 ROW COL lh1 r , c / r 1 , c 1 , COL , 2 2 ROW COL , and hl1 r , c / r 1 , ROW c 1 , 2 2 ROW COL hh1 r , c / r 1 , ROW c 1 , COL . 2 2 4 ) We apply iDCT-2D to each subband of J. Then , we obtain , ROW COL c 1 , 2 , 2 ROW COL LH1 = iDCT-2D ( lh1 ) , with LH1 r , c / r 1 , c 1 , COL , 2 2 ROW COL HL1 = iDCT-2D ( hl1 ) , with HL1 r , c / r , and 1 , ROW c 1 , 2 2 ROW COL HH1 = iDCT-2D ( hh1 ) , with HH1 r , c / r 1 , ROW c 1 , COL . 2 2 LL1 = iDCT-2D ( ll1 ) , with LL1 r , c / r 1 , ( 238a ) ( 238b ) ( 238c ) ( 238d ) From now on , the treatment is similar to the two-dimensional discrete wavelet transform , e.g. , Haar [ 162170 ] , see Section 2.2.2 . Fig. 58 Coslets-2D on Lena . Subband Coefficients and Multirresolution The coslets corresponds to multiresolution approximation expressions . In practice , mutiresolution analysis is carried out using 4 channel filter banks ( for each level of decomposition ) composed of a low-pass and a high-pass filter and each filter bank is then sampled at a half rate ( 1 / 2 down sampling ) of the previous frequency . By repeating this procedure , it is possible to obtain coslets of any order . The down sampling procedure keeps the scaling parameter constant ( equal to 1 ⁄ 2 ) throughout successive coslets so that is benefits for simple computer implementation . In the case of an image , the filtering is implemented in a separable way be filtering the lines and columns . Note that coslets of an image consists of four frequency channels for each level of decomposition ( identical to the case of wavelets ) . For example , for i-level of decomposition we have : LL n , i : Noisy Coefficients of Approximation . LH n , i : Noisy Coefficients of Vertical Detail , HL n , i : Noisy Coefficients of Horizontal Detail , and HH n , i : Noisy Coefficients of Diagonal Detail . The LL part at each scale is decomposed recursively , as illustrated in Fig. 12 . To achieve space-scale adaptive noise reduction , we need to prepare the 1-D coefficient data stream which contains the space-scale information of 2-D images . This is somewhat similar to the "" zigzag "" arrangement of the DCT coefficients in image coding applications [ 45-48 , 227 , 229-249 ] . In this data preparation step , the coslets coefficients are rearranged as a 1-D coefficient series in spatial order so that the adjacent samples represent the same local areas in the original image [ 248 , 249 ] . Figure 59 shows the interior of the coslets-2D with the four subbands of the transformed image , which will be used in Fig. 16 . Each output of Fig. 59 represents a subband of splitting process of the 2-D coefficient matrix corresponding to Fig. 12 . Figure 59 Two dimensional coslets . A decomposition step . Usual splitting of the subbands . Coslet Noise Thresholding It is exactly the same of Section 2.2.2 , this similarity includes thresholding method of D. L. Donoho and I. M. Johnstone [ 125-127 ] , and smoothing of coefficients in wavelet domain via directional smoothing [ 166 , 171 ] and mean filtering [ 45-48 ] . Deblurring : these techniques are very useful for those cases in which a downsampling process is followed by an upsampling process . This creates an undesirable effect on the image called blur , in which the edges of said image are degraded . Deblurring consists in the restoration of the edges ( in this case ) via convolution mask . This technique is known as unsharp masking [ 45-48 ] . In this paper , the downsampling and upsampling is done with the techniques of Section 4.1.3 , while the deblurring is done by a two-dimensional convolution mask of NxN pixels , which makes a rafter over the upsampled ( blurred ) image . The parameters of this squared mask ( where N is odd ) are criticals , therefore , such parameters must be calculated and adjusted with total accuracy . Coming up next , we will proceed to deduct the mask and set the optimal relationship between its parameters . Later we will proceed to adjust them via a Genetic Algorithm [ 250 ] . Deduction of the mask Based on the last section , the single frame is recovered after suffering a pair of processes : downsampling and upsampling , see left side of Fig. 60 . In this figure : X means original single frame . Y means recovered ( blurred ) single frame . Mb means square mask of NxN pixels ( where N is odd ) . means downsampling . means upsampling . This mask is known as a blurred mask , smoothing operator or Point Spread Function ( PSF ) [ 251 ] . Figure 60 Downsampling / upsampling as a blurred mask . In these processes ( and ) , the single frame is affected by a space / time invariant blur , we which interpret as the result of the action of a two-dimensional convolution between the original single frame and a mask known in Digital Image Processing as a mask of mean filtering . The idea of mean filtering is simply to replace each pixel value in an image with the mean ( ' average ' ) value of its neighbors , including itself . This has the effect of eliminating pixel values which are unrepresentative of their surroundings . Mean filtering is usually thought of as a convolution filter . Like other convolutions it is based around a kernel , which represents the shape and size of the neighborhood to be sampled when calculating the mean . Often a 3 × 3 square kernel is used , although larger kernels ( e.g. 5 × 5 squares ) can be used for more severe smoothing . ( Note that a small kernel can be applied more than once in order to produce a similar but not identical effect as a single pass with a large kernel ) . In Fig. 61 , we consider the most general case , for N × N kernel , always with odd N , where : 1 NN ( 239 ) Figure 61 N × N averaging kernel often used in mean filtering . Computing the straightforward convolution of an image with this kernel carries out the mean filtering process . Y Mb X ( 240 ) Where means two-dimensional convolution . At this point , we propose a model of deblurring based on low noise , linear space and time invariant blur via convolution , thus , X Md Y ( 241 ) Where Md is a mask as shown in Fig. 62 , and the following relationships to consider are very important , ( N 2 1 ) 1 , ( for deblurring ) ( 242a ) ( N 1 ) 0 , ( for edge detection ) ( 242b ) 2 Thus , a new and simplified model of deblurring appears on the scene , see Fig. 63 , where < 0 and > 1 . We need to establish precisely both parameters , then , there are two possible ways forward : 1 . Choose N ( integer , positive , odd and small ) , and > 1 ( and arbitrarily less than 2 ) , then is derived from Eq. ( 242a ) . 2 . Start with arbitrary values of and ( about certain recommendations , e.g. , -0.1 < < 0 and 1 < 2 ) and generating a random population of the pair [ , ] , and Figure 62 Deblurring mask Md. Figure 63 New and simplified model of deblurring . deducting N from Eq. ( 242a ) . The mentioned pair serves of initial population for the Genetic Algorithm [ 250 ] of Fig. 64 , where the pair is called chromosome , and and are called genes . The metric for the adjustment is the Mean Squared Error ( MSE ) , which is defined in the next section [ 45 , 46 ] . Figure 64 Genetic Algorithm for calculating the parameters of the mask . On the other hand , the employed Genetic Algorithm is com-posed of three big modules : a ) Scoring , b ) Crossover Operator , and c ) Mutation Operator The first consists of the following submodules : a . 1 ) Set-point where the error pixel-by-pixel arises a . 2 ) The MSE calculation with the error pixel-by-pixel a . 3 ) Sorting from minimum to maximum MSE a . 4 ) Genocide Operator eliminates the chromosomes with biggest MSE , i.e. , there are a fixed number of chromosomes that survive per cycle , the fittest . Such fixed number is a design parameter of the Genetic Algorithm . The Crossover Operator ( or Mating Operator ) crosses the parent chromosomes ( selected randomly ) generating new son chromosomes , which will be better and / or worse than their parents [ 250 ] . The Mutation Operator must have a low frequency of action for the purpose of not disturbing the nature of the species , i.e. , skip to solve another problem [ 250 ] . Finally , parameters were found to be high = -0.0129 and = 1.63 . With a similar reasoning , we can apply a deblurring procedure to a signal via convolution masks seen in Section 2.2 . In fact , the procedure is very simply , given a signal : 1 ) obtain ( N-1 ) / 2 up-signals and ( N-1 ) / 2 down-signals by any of the methods of Figures 28 or 29 , such that N is an odd number , 2 ) build a N × N mask whose values are = -0.0129 except the central element that must be = 1.63 , and 3 ) perform a convolution between the mask and the package of N signals . The result of this convolution is the deblurring on the original signal . 4.1.2 Complementary tools Phase plane and stability : Phase plane analysis is one of the most important techniques for studying the behavior of dynamic systems , especially in the nonlinear case , where general methods for computing analytical solution do not exist [ 252 ] . Some comments : 1 ) The response characteristics ( relative speed of response ) for unforced systems depend on the initial conditions 2 ) Eigenvalue / eigenvector analysis allows us to predict the response characteristics ( fast and slow , or stable and unstable ) depending on initial conditions 3 ) Another way of obtaining a feel for the effect of initial conditions ( and then of the characteristics of the response ) is to use a phase-plane plot 4 ) A phase-plane plot for a two-state variable system consists of curves of one state variable versus the other one ( x1 ( t ) vs. x2 ( t )) , where each curve is based on a different initial condition 5 ) Consider a systems of linear differential equations x ́ = Ax . Its phase portrait is a representative set of its solutions , plotted as parametric curves ( with t as the parameter ) on the Cartesian plane tracing the path of each particular solution ( x , y ) = ( x1 ( t ) , x2 ( t )) , t . Similar to a direction field , a phase portrait is a graphical tool to visualize how the solutions of a given system of differential equations would behave in the long run . 6 ) In this context , the Cartesian plane where the phase portrait resides is called the phase plane . The parametric curves traced by the solutions are sometimes also called their trajectories . 7 ) Remark : It is quite labor-intensive , but it is possible to sketch the phase portrait by hand without first having to solve the system of equations that it represents . Just like a direction field , a phase portrait can be a tool to predict the behaviors of a system's solutions . To do so , we draw a grid on the phase plane . Then , at each grid point x = ( , ) , we can calculate the solution trajectory's instantaneous direction of motion at that point by using the given system of equations to compute the tangent / velocity vector , x ́ . Namely plug in x = ( , ) to compute x ́ = Ax . 8 ) An equilibrium solution of the system x ́ = Ax is a point ( x1 , x2 ) where x ́ = 0 , that is , where x1 ́ = x2 ́ = 0 . An equilibrium solution is a constant solution of the system , and is usually called a critical point . 9 ) For a linear system x ́ = Ax , an equilibrium solution occurs at each solution of the system ( of homogeneous algebraic equations ) Ax = 0 . As we have seen , such a system has exactly one solution , located at the origin , if det ( A ) 0 . If det ( A ) = 0 , then there are infinitely many solutions . 10 ) For our purpose , and unless otherwise noted , we will only consider systems of linear differential equations whose coefficient matrix A has nonzero determinant . That is , we will only consider systems where the origin is the only critical point . 11 ) The critical points of various systems of first order linear differential equations are classified by using their stability . In addition , due to the truly two dimensional nature of the parametric curves , we will also classify the type of those critical points by the shapes formed by the trajectories about each critical point . 12 ) Comment : The accurate tracing of the parametric curves of the solutions is not an easy task without computers . However , we can obtain very reasonable approximation of a trajectory by using the very same idea behind the direction field , namely the tangent line approximation . At each point x = ( x1 , x2 ) on the plane , the direction of motion of the solution curve that passes through the point is determined by the direction vector ( i.e. the tangent vector ) x ́ , the derivative of the solution vector x , evaluated at the given point . The tangent vector at each given point can be calculated directly from the given matrix vector equation x ́ = Ax , using the position vector x = ( x1 , x2 ) . Like working with a direction field , there is no need to find the solution before performing this approximation . Next , we can see a direct application of this tool to signal and images . For signals For this experiment , we use the electrocardiographic signal of Fig. 43 ( top ) . As we can see , such signal is cyclic , i.e. , it is repeated periodically . a ) Case with overlap From Eq. ( 140 ) we have , sn sn 1 sn 1 2 , n 0 , N 1 , being n the discrete time . The signal must be padded . Figure 65 Phase plane for case with overlap . Figure 65 shows us phase plane for this case with the corresponding evolutionary trajectory . b ) Case without overlap From Equations ( 163 ) and ( 164 ) we have lk sn sn 1 2 and hk sn sn1 , k 0 , N 1 . The signal should not be padded . 2 2 lk hk Figure 66 Phase plane for case without overlap . Figure 66 shows us phase plane for this case with the corresponding evolutionary trajectory . As we see , both figures are identical except for the scale of the vertical axis . This shows the consistency of QuSA / FAT method , which gives similar phase planes for the same signal by different calculation . For images For this experiment , we use the image of Angelina of Fig. 48 . a ) Case with overlap Given an image I , we obtain I h from Eq. ( 176 ) , I v from Eq. ( 177 ) , and I d I from Eq. ( 178 ) , where the subscripts { h , v , d } means { horizontal , vertical , diagonal } respectively . Besides , in this case , image must be padded . Figure 67 shows us the phase plane for case with overlap , by color channel and orientation . b ) Case without overlap Given an image I LL1R _ r , c from Eq. ( 208 ) , we obtain I h LH R1 _ r , c from Eq. ( 209 ) , I v HL1R _ r , c from Eq. ( 210 ) , and I d HH R1 _ r , c from Eq. ( 211 ) , where here too , the subscripts { h , v , d } means { horizontal , 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 vertical , diagonal } respectively . In all cases , r1 1 , ROW / 2 , c1 1 , COL / 2 , being ROW-by-COL the resolution of the original image named I. Besides , in this case , the image should not be padded . Figure 68 shows us the phase plane for case without overlap , by color channel and orientation . Histogram : distribution of pixels graylevel values . A graph of number of pixels at each graylevel possible in an image . A histogram is a probability distribution of pixels values and may be processed using statistical techniques . These processes result in changes to the brightness and contrast in an image , but are independent of the spatial distribution of the pixels [ 253 ] . It plots the number of pixels for each tonal value . By looking at the histogram for a specific image a viewer will be able to judge the entire tonal distribution at a glance [ 254 ] . Image histograms are present on many modern digital cameras . Photographers can use them as an aid to show the distribution of tones captured , and whether image detail has been lost to blown-out highlights or blacked-out shadows . This is less useful when using a raw image format , as the dynamic range of the displayed image may only be an approximation to that red green blue h v d Figure 67 Phase plane for case with overlap , by color channel and orientation . in the raw file . The horizontal axis of the graph represents the tonal variations , while the vertical axis represents the number of pixels in that particular tone . The left side of the horizontal axis represents the black and dark areas , the middle represents medium grey and the right hand side represents light and pure white areas . The vertical axis represents the size of the area that is captured in each one of these zones . Thus , the histogram for a very dark image will have the majority of its data points on the left side and center of the graph . Conversely , the histogram for a very bright image with few dark areas and / or shadows will have most of its data points on the right side and center of the graph . Finally , Fig. 69 shows an image of Angelina and its histogram . As Prof. Emmanuel Agu says [ 255 ] : histograms is an important tool , because • They help detect image acquisition issues • Problems with image can be identified on histogram , such as : Over and under exposure Brightness Contrast Dynamic Range • Point operations can be used to alter histogram , e.g. : Addition Multiplication Exponential and Logarithmic Intensity windowing ( contrast modification ) With regard to the interpretation of the histograms , Logarithmic scale makes low values more visible . This allows a marked difference between darkest and lightest . See Fig. 70 . red green blue h v d Figure 68 Phase plane for case without overlap , by color channel and orientation . Figure 69 Left : Angelina , right : its histogram . On the other hand , histograms allows detect bad exposure , i.e. , if the intensity values are spread ( good ) out or bunched up ( bad ) . See Fig. 71 . Besides , image contrast tells us : • In a grayscale image it indicates how easily objects in the image can be distinguished • High contrast image : many distinct intensity values • Low contrast : image uses few intensity values Figure 70 Linear and logarithmic scale in histogram with explicit contrast range . Figure 71 Histograms in terms of exposure . Moreover , regarding the relationship between contrast and histograms , we can say that a good contrast is a widely spread intensity values more a large difference between minima and maxima intensity values . See Fig. 72 . Figure 72 Histograms in terms of exposure . Finally , histograms are complementary to the witness bars seen in Section 3.3.1 . Finally , they are very useful for calculating mutual information between frames of a video , as we can see in Section 4.1.5 . 4.1.3 Superresolution of still images and its consequences Next , we will see three methods based on QuSA / FAT , which will allow us to perform super-resolution , compression , and filtering ( denoising and despeckling ) on signals , images and video . In the three methods we may use ( indistinctly ) wavelets ( in particular , Haar basis , with compact support , see Section 2.2.2 ) and coslets ( without compact support , see Section 4.1.1 ) . On the other hand , we are going to explain it in images , although the method is automatically extended to the case of signals and video , without major complications . The experiment consists of the following , given an image I , we apply wavelet ( in this case , Haar basis ) and get four subbands by each color , see Equations 207 to 211 , so that , we will have , e.g. , for the red channel , LL0R I R , and ( 243 ) LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 haar2 LL0R , ( 244 ) being haar2 an operator which calculated the first level of two-dimensional Haar wavelet transform . Section 2.2.2 . Besides , if LL0R and I R ROW , COL , instead , LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , and HH R1 ROW 2 , COL 2 , i.e. , each subband of a second level of splitting with Haar would have a size of ROW 4 , COL 4 , and so . The main idea is to get rid of detail subbands , that is to say , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 and only transmit and / or store the approximation subband , i.e. , LL1R . Thus , the data to transmit or store is reduced by 75 % . Moreover , and in order to reconstruct the original image , we must restore the missing subbands ( detail ) from the approximation subband , in such a way that the distortion be minimal , in fact , the three methods ( based on QuSA / FAT ) we will see below comply with this premise . Besides , and in order to organize what we see then , we 'll target methods taking into account communications of mobile type , fundamentally . Hence , we will separate the three procedures in encoder and decoder . Subsequently , we synthesize everything is a single table that will be enlightening . Therefore , in the encoder we will have a downsampling process ( in fact , a compression ) , while in the decoder we will have an upsampling ( or decompression ) which it is also a superresolution of still image . First one Encoder : We begin with Eq. ( 244 ) LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 haar2 LL0R . By tautology , every FAT is equal to itself , e.g. , LH R1 . / LL1R LH R1 . / LL1R , ( 245 ) then , and without alteration LH R1 . / LL1R LH R1 . / LL1R LL1R . / LL1R . ( 246 ) Now , if the size of LH R1 and LL1R , i.e. , ROW 2 COL 2 , and clearing LH R1 , we will have lim ROW 2 COL 2 LH R1 LH R1 LL1R LL1R LL1R LL1R cLH R1 LL1R ( 247 ) where cLH R1 LH R1 LL1R ( 248 ) LL1R LL1R Identical case for HL1R and HH R1 . Finally , we eliminate to LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , and therefore , we transmit LL1R , cLH R1 , cHL1R , cHH R1 , being cLH 1 R , cHL1R , cHH R1 simple scalars . Equation ( 247 ) is equivalent to say mutual information between LH R1 and cLH R1 LL1R is the maximum possible for a technique that touch resolution . See Section 4.1.5 . Decoder : From LL1R , cLH R1 , cHL1R , cHH R1 we rebuild LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , that is to say LH R1 1 R HL HH R1 cLH R1 LL1R 1 R 1 R cHL LL cHH R1 LL1R . ( 249a ) ( 249b ) ( 249c ) Then , we apply LL0R ihaar2 LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , ( 250 ) where ihaar2 is an operator , which calculated the first level of inverse two-dimensional Haar wavelet transform . Identical procedure for green and blue channels . Finally , I R LL0R ( 251 ) If : a ) the original image is small , or b ) we use several levels of downsampling / upsampling , or c ) the original image comes from a previous filtering process , then , we need the deblurring technique of Section 4.1.1 for a reconstruction of the edges and texture . Second one Encoder : We begin with Eq. ( 244 ) LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 haar2 LL0R . Then , we eliminate to LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , and we transmit only LL1R . This method is known in literature as Rule of Three ( Ro3 ) , see [ 257 ] . Decoder : First , we define something called replicated element of subband ( RES ) , which is repeated 4 times the value of each element of a matrix forming a macroelement . We can see this in a very simple example in Eq , ( 252 ) . In such equation , each element of the matrix is repeated in square shaped . a a b c d c a c a a b b c c d d b b d d ( 252 ) Then and always for red channel ( as example ) , we apply , LL2R , LH R2 , HL2R , HH R2 haar2 LL1R . ( 253 ) Now , we use operator res2 ( • ) to each subband of second level of haar2 splitting , LL2R _ res res2 LL2R , ( 254a ) LH R2 _ res res2 LH R2 , ( 254b ) HL2R _ res res2 HL2R , and ( 254c ) HH R2 _ res res2 HH R2 . ( 254d ) Therefore , if we make lim ROW 2COL 2 LH R1 . / LL1R LH R2 _ res . / LL2R _ res ( 255 ) where superscript 2 means second level of splitting thanks to haar2 . This means that FATs of consistent levels of splitting ( n and n + 1 ) tend to the same value as the dimension of the matrices tends to infinity . This also means that the mutual information between LL1R and LL2R _ res and LH R1 and LH R2 _ res is maximized for the same circumstances . Thus , LH R2 _ res . / LL2R _ res LL2R _ res . / LL2R _ res LH R1 . / LL1R ( 256 ) Now , if the size of LH R1 , LL1R , LH R2 _ res , and LL2R _ res , i.e. , ROW 2 COL 2 , and clearing LH R1 , we will have lim ROW 2 COL 2 LH R1 LH R2 _ res LL2R _ res LL2R _ res LL2R _ res LL1R ( 257 ) Therefore , LH 1 R HL1R HH R1 LH R2 _ res LL2R _ res 2 R _ res LL 2 R _ res LL HL2R _ res LL2R _ res LL2R _ res LL2R _ res HH R2 _ res LL2R _ res LL2R _ res LL2R _ res LL1R ( 258a ) LL1R ( 258b ) LL1R Another version element-by-element presented in [ 257 ] is ( 258c ) LH R2 _ res _ r , c LH R1 _ r , c LL1R _ r , c ( 259a ) LL1R _ r , c ( 259b ) LL2R _ res _ r , c HL2R _ res _ r , c HL1R _ r , c LL2R _ res _ r , c HH R2 _ res _ r , c HH R1 _ r , c LL2R _ res _ r , c LL1R _ r , c ( 259c ) r 1 , ROW 2 c 1 , COL 2 . Under the same circumstances , we can replace LH R2 by LH R2 _ res , and LL2R by LL2R _ res in Eq. ( 257 ) , LH R1 HL1R LH R2 LL2R LL2R LL2R HL2R LL2R LL2R LL2R HH R1 HH R2 LL2R 2 R 2 R LL LL LL1R ( 260a ) LL1R ( 260b ) LL1R ( 260c ) Therefore , this version has three alternatives for its implementation , i.e. , Equations ( 258 , 259 , and 260 ) . Then , we apply LL0R ihaar2 LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , ( 261 ) Finally , I R LL0R ( 262 ) Here too , if : a ) the original image is small , or b ) we use several levels of downsampling / upsampling , or c ) the original image comes from a previous filtering process , then , we need the deblurring technique of Section 4.1.1 for a reconstruction of the edges and texture . Third one Encoder : We begin with Eq. ( 244 ) LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 haar2 LL0R . Then , we eliminate to LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , and we transmit only LL1R . Hitherto , this version is identical to the previous one . Decoder : From LL1R we rebuild LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , based on directional FATs of Section 3.3.2 , that is to say , the developed case with overlap , in particular , we will use a segmental convolution mask with M = 3 , based on Equations ( from 174 to 178 , 182 , and 191 ) . Thus , we define an operator called fat2 ( • ) which allow us to obtain LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 from LL1R from the mentioned equations , then lim ROW 2 COL 2 LH 1 R , HL1R , HH R1 fat2 LL1R , ( 263 ) with LH R1 fat2h LL1R , ( 264a ) HL1R fat2v LL1R , and ( 264b ) HH R1 fat2d LL1R . ( 264c ) Where superscripts { h , v , d } means { horizontal , vertical , diagonal } respectively . Then , we apply LL0R ihaar2 LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , ( 265 ) Finally , I R LL0R ( 266 ) Here , we 'll make identical considerations to previous versions regarding the deblurring . Comparation between them Next , in Table III we can see a comparison between three versions , mainly and indirectly in relation to computational cost , and channel usage . TABLE III COMPARISON BETWEEN THREE VERSIONS . Version LL 1 R 1 Encoder We calculate , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , cLH R1 , cHL1R , cHH R1 We eliminate LH , HL , HH 1 R 1 R 1 R We transmit LL1R , cLH R1 , cHL1R , cHH R1 We calculate LL1R We transmit LL1R Decoder We receive LL1R , cLH R1 , cHL1R , cHH R1 We rebuild LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 We calculate I We eliminate LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 We receive LL1R We calculate LL2R , LH R2 , HL2R , HH R2 We calculate LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 2 LL 1 R We calculate LL1R 3 We transmit LL1R We calculate I We eliminate , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 , LL2R , LH R2 , HL2R , HH R2 We receive LL1R We rebuild LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 We calculate I We eliminate LL1R , LH R1 , HL1R , HH R1 Clearly , the third method has the best of two previous versions . In Section 4.2.2 we simulate the three seen . On the other hand , exists a fourth version which consists to suppress the bands of detail in the encoder and replace them with zeros in the decoder , and we call Blacking , which will not be seen in this work and significantly lower quality than the said . 4.1.4 Edge detection We can obtain edge detection of images via QuSA / FAT , e.g. , if we use Lena ( in gray level ) of Fig. 13 and 34 , M = 3 M > 3 Se Sq Fig. 73 Edge detection by type and size of the convolution mask . in particular for the case with overlap , we can plot feq for segmental mask with M = 3 from Eq. ( 190 ) , square mask with M = 3 from Eq. ( 200 ) , segmental mask with M > 3 ( M = 7 ) , and square mask with M > 3 ( M = 7 ) , all in Fig. 73 , where { Se , Sq } means { segmental , square } respectively . As we can see in such figure , the results are similar to the traditional techniques of edge detection based on Sobel , Prewitt , Roberts , and Canny [ 45-48 , 256 ] . Finally , Fig. 73 was post - produced for better viewing . 4.1.5 Metrics Below , we present metrics that will be used in the simulations . Data Compression Ratio ( CR ) Data compression ratio , also known as compression power , is a computer-science term used to quantify the reduction in data-representation size produced by a data compression algorithm . The data compression ratio is analogous to the physical compression ratio used to measure physical compression of substances , and is defined in the same way , as the ratio between the uncompressed size and the compressed size [ 45 ] : CR Uncompress ed Size ( 267 ) Compressed Size Thus a representation that compresses a 10MB file to 2MB has a compression ratio of 10 / 2 = 5 , often notated as an explicit ratio , 5 : 1 ( read "" five to one "" ) , or as an implicit ratio , 5X . Note that this formulation applies equally for compression , where the uncompressed size is that of the original ; and for decompression , where the uncompressed size is that of the reproduction . Percent Space Savings ( PSS ) Sometimes the space savings is given instead , which is defined as the reduction in size relative to the uncompressed size : PSS 1 1 * 100 % CR ( 268 ) Thus a representation that compresses 10MB file to 2MB would yield a space savings of 1-2 / 10 = 0.8 , often notated as a percentage , 80 % . Peak Signal-To-Noise Ratio ( PSNR ) The phrase peak signal-to-noise ratio , often abbreviated PSNR , is an engineering term for the ratio between the maximum possible power of a signal and the power of corrupting noise that affects the fidelity of its representation . Because many signals have a very wide dynamic range , PSNR is usually expressed in terms of the logarithmic decibel scale . The PSNR is most commonly used as a measure of quality of reconstruction in image compression etc [ 45 ] . It is most easily defined via the mean squared error ( MSE ) which for two NR × NC ( rows-by-columns ) monochrome images I and Id , where the second one of the images is considered a decompressed / denoised approximation of the other is defined as : MSE 1 NR 1 NC 1 I ( nr , nc ) I d ( nr , nc ) 2 ( 269 ) NRxNC nr 0 nc 0 The PSNR is defined as [ 258 ] : PSNR 10 log10 MAX I2 MAX I 20 log10 MSE MSE ( 270 ) Here , MAXi is the maximum pixel value of the image . When the pixels are represented using 8 bits per sample , this is 255 . More generally , when samples are represented using linear pulse code modulation ( PCM ) with B bits per sample , maximum possible value of MAXi is 2B-1 . For color images with three red-green-blue ( RGB ) values per pixel , the definition of PSNR is the same except the MSE is the sum over all squared value differences divided by image size and by three [ 45 ] . A similar situation occurs with the mean absolute error ( MAE ) , which is discussed below . Typical values for the PSNR in lossy image and video compression are between 30 and 50 dB , where higher is better . Finally , a conspicuous metric for these cases is the mean absolute error , which is a quantity used to measure how close forecasts or predictions are to the eventual outcomes . The mean absolute error ( MAE ) is given by MAE NR 1 NC 1 1 NRxNC nr 0 nc 0 I ( nr , nc ) I d ( nr , nc ) ( 271 ) which for two NR × NC ( rows-by-columns ) monochrome images I and Id , where the second one of the images is considered a decompressed / denoised approximation of the other of the first one . In the case of signals , MSE and MAE will be MSE MAE 1 N 1 S ( n ) Sd ( n ) 2 ( 272 ) N n 0 1 N S ( n ) Sd ( n ) N n 0 ( 273 ) while PSNR be PSNR 10 log10 MAX S2 MAX S 20 log10 MSE MSE ( 274 ) It 's easy to generalize { MAE , MSE , and PSNR } for images ( 2D ) and video ( 3D ) . Mutual Information between two matrices Here , we are going to calculate the Mutual Information between two images , frames or matrices thanks to marginal entropies and the joint entropy [ 259 ] . Therefore , Mutual information can be expressed as I X , Y H X H Y H X , Y , ( 275 ) where I ( X ; Y ) is the mutual information between the two images , H ( X ) is the entropy of image X , H ( Y ) is the entropy of image Y , and H ( X , Y ) is the joint entropy between images . Entropy of an image If X is the image , we begin with the normalization of X , i.e. , X X ROW COL X ( r , c ) , r 1 , ROW c 1 , COL , ( 276 ) r 1 c 1 such that , ROW COL X ( r , c ) 1 , ( 277 ) r 1 c 1 Thus , ROW COL H X X ( r , c ) log 2 X ( r , c ) , r 1 c 1 ( 278 ) Mutual Information between two images , frames or matrices However , it is more practical to calculate the entropies ( including the joint entropy , and hence the Mutual Information ) based on histograms as seen in Section 4.1.2 . To this end , we recommend the MATLAB code [ 49 ] developed by Jose Delpiano [ 260 , 261 ] . 4.2 Simulations properly speaking For all experiments , we are going to use metrics of the last section . Besides , the employed signal will be that of Fig. 43 , i.e. , electrocardiographic ( ECG ) signal of 80 pulses per second , and 1024 samples per second , while , for the image case , we will use to Angelina of Fig. 48 , with 1920-by-1080 pixels , and 24 bpp . Finally , we only simulate those techniques that we consider conspicuous in order to test the strength of QuSA / FAT , or those that we have not simulated in the previous sections . 4.2.1 Denoising ( and despeckling ) The general schema of the denoising procedure can be seen in Fig. 74 , where the signal ( in fact , signal or image ) is corrupted by additive noise ( or multiplicative noise of Gamma distribution known like speckle [ 50 , 162-171 , 199 ] ) . After the filter , we compare denoised and original image with a set of metrics like defined in the last section , in order to test the filtering ( denoising for additive noise and despeckling for multiplicative noise or speckle ) performance . Fig. 74 Filtering : denoising / despeckling . Signals In all cases , the signal is injected with a 5 % of white noise with Gaussian distribution and zero mean value . On the other hand , Table IV shows us denoising techniques vs metrics , where acronyms means : SG : Savitzky-Golay MF : Mean filter . In all cases M = 3 , i.e. , it is a square mask of 3x3 . DS : Directional Smoothing . In all cases M = 3 , i.e. , it is a square mask of 3x3 . ST : Soft-thresholding HT : Hard-thresholding SR-i : Super-resolution , version i Clearly , Coslet is better than Haar basis in all applications . Moreover , although Savitzky-Golay has better metric results , it is very slow regarding to the rest of techniques . Besides , Savitzky-Golay is used at its best version , while the other at its worst version . Figure 75 shows us corresponding simulations with noisy signal in red and denoised signal in blue . Clearly it improved in all cases . TABLE IV DENOISING TECHNIQUES VS METRICS FOR ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHIC SIGNAL . Technique SG MF DS Haar / ST Haar / HT Haar / MF Haar / DS Coslet / ST Coslet / HT Coslet / MF Coslet / DS SR-1 / Haar SR-1 / Coslet SR-2 / Haar SR-2 / Coslet SR-3 / Haar SR-3 / Coslet MAE 0.6127 0.6918 1.7021 1.2983 1.3232 1.2810 1.0979 0.8298 1.0184 1.2224 0.8087 1.4409 0.8618 1.3447 0.9315 1.4428 0.8121 Metrics MSE 0.6187 0.7976 4.8446 4.4874 3.5289 2.6042 2.3168 1.0913 1.5812 2.3359 1.0250 5.3277 1.1830 5.0144 1.3227 5.0915 1.0195 PSNR 42.5526 41.4496 33.6149 33.9474 34.9910 36.3107 36.8185 40.0879 38.4773 36.7828 40.3599 33.2020 39.7375 33.4652 39.2527 33.3989 40.3833 Next , we define some important aspects of the simulations : SG : Smooth the signal by applying a cubic Savitzky-Golay filter to data frames of length 41 . MF : it was applied 26 times DS : it was applied 2 times Haar / DS : DS was applied 10 times Haar / MF : MF was applied 5 times Coslet / DS : DS was applied 20 times Coslet / MF : MF was applied 5 times Always , Haar and Coslet were used with 3 level of splitting Finally , for the three versions of SR , we have the following MI ( mutual information ) values between subbands of consecutive levels of splitting : Haar : MI ( L0 = S and L1 ) = 5.1395 MI ( L1 and L2 ) = 4.7895 MI ( L2 and L3 ) = 4.5368 MI ( L3 and L4 ) = 4.2153 MI ( H1 and H2 ) = 3.4076 MI ( H2 and H3 ) = 3.2214 MI ( H3 and H4 ) = 3.1905 Coslet : MI ( L0 = S and L1 ) = 5.1577 MI ( L1 and L2 ) = 4.7741 MI ( L2 and L3 ) = 4.1564 MI ( L3 and L4 ) = 3.9807 MI ( H1 and H2 ) = 1.1155 MI ( H2 and H3 ) = 3.1654 MI ( H3 and H4 ) = 4.1600 Fig. 75 ( 1 , 1 ) Original signal , for the rest , noisy signal is in red and denoised signal in blue . In order : ( 1 , 2 ) SG , ( 1 , 3 ) MF , ( 2 , 1 ) DS , ( 2 , 2 ) Haar / ST , ( 2 , 3 ) Haar / HT , ( 3 , 1 ) Haar / MF , ( 3 , 2 ) Haar / DS , ( 3 , 3 ) Coslet / ST , ( 4 , 1 ) Coslet / HT , ( 4 , 2 ) Coslet / MF , ( 4 , 3 ) Coslet / DS , ( 5 , 1 ) SR-1 / Haar , ( 5 , 2 ) SR-1 / Coslet , ( 5 , 3 ) SR-2 / Haar , ( 6 . 1 ) SR-2 / Coslet , ( 6 , 2 ) SR-3 / Haar , ( 6 , 3 ) SR-3 / Coslet . Images Here too , in all cases , the signal is injected with a 5 % of white noise with Gaussian distribution and zero mean value . On the other hand , Table V shows us denoising techniques vs metrics . As in the case of signals , Coslet has a better performance than Haar . Next , we define some important aspects of the simulations : TABLE V DENOISING TECHNICS VS METRICS FOR ANGELINA . Technique SG MF DS Haar / ST Haar / HT Haar / MF Haar / DS Coslet / ST Coslet / HT Coslet / MF Coslet / DS SR-1 / Haar SR-1 / Coslet SR-2 / Haar SR-2 / Coslet SR-3 / Haar SR-3 / Coslet MAE 12.6555 11.0919 11.3643 13.1756 13.1386 13.1870 15.1179 12.9394 12.9352 13.0036 15.0539 13.2233 12.9421 13.2347 12.9647 13.2226 12.9641 Metrics MSE 128.0198 130.4895 117.4117 210.3154 207.4902 224.6231 338.7261 193.1937 192.7052 212.7928 334.7423 213.9069 193.9325 214.1865 194.4172 213.7166 194.2723 PSNR 27.0580 26.9750 27.4336 24.9020 24.9608 24.6162 22.8323 25.2708 25.2818 24.8512 22.8836 24.8285 25.2542 24.8228 25.2434 24.8324 25.2466 SG : Smooth the image by applying a degree = 7 Savitzky-Golay filter to data frames of length 7 . MF : it was applied 3 times DS : it was applied 3 times Haar / DS : DS was applied 3 times Haar / MF : MF was applied 3 times Coslet / DS : DS was applied 3 times Coslet / MF : MF was applied 3 times Always , Haar and Coslet were used with 3 level of splitting Finally , for the three versions of SR , we have the following MI ( mutual information ) values between subbands of consecutive levels of splitting : Haar : MI ( LL0 = I and LL1 ) = 4.6510 MI ( LL1 and LL2 ) = 4.1177 MI ( LL2 and LL3 ) = 3.8293 MI ( LL3 and LL4 ) = 3.7332 MI ( LH1 and LH2 ) = 0.7555 MI ( LH2 and LH3 ) = 0.8528 MI ( LH3 and LH4 ) = 1.2026 MI ( HL1 and HL2 ) = 0.6563 MI ( HL2 and HL3 ) = 0.7721 MI ( HL3 and HL4 ) = 1.0706 MI ( HH1 and HH2 ) = 0.4938 MI ( HH2 and HH3 ) = 0.5381 MI ( HH3 and HH4 ) = 0.7983 Coslet : MI ( LL0 = I and LL1 ) = 4.4390 MI ( LL1 and LL2 ) = 3.7376 MI ( LL2 and LL3 ) = 3.4205 MI ( LL3 and LL4 ) = 3.3838 MI ( LH1 and LH2 ) = 0.2762 MI ( LH2 and LH3 ) = 0.3908 MI ( LH3 and LH4 ) = 0.7539 MI ( HL1 and HL2 ) = 0.2614 MI ( HL2 and HL3 ) = 0.3248 MI ( HL3 and HL4 ) = 0.3963 MI ( HH1 and HH2 ) = 0.1762 MI ( HH2 and HH3 ) = 0.3144 MI ( HH3 and HH4 ) = 0.4838 Figure 76a shows us the noisy image , while Figures from 76b to 76r shows us denoised images . Clearly it improved in all cases . Fig. 76a Angelina's noisy image . Fig. 76b Angelina's denoised image via SG . Fig. 76c Angelina's denoised image via MF . Fig. 76d Angelina's denoised image via DS . Fig. 76e Angelina's denoised image via Haar / ST . Fig. 76f Angelina's denoised image via Haar / HT . Fig. 76g Angelina's denoised image via Haar / MF . Fig. 76h Angelina's denoised image via Haar / DS . Fig. 76i Angelina's denoised image via Coslet / ST . Fig. 76j Angelina's denoised image via Coslet / HT . Fig. 76k Angelina's denoised image via Coslet / MF . Fig. 76l Angelina's denoised image via Coslet / DS . Fig. 76m Angelina's denoised image via SR-1 / Haar . Fig. 76n Angelina's denoised image via SR-1 / Coslet . Fig. 76o Angelina's denoised image via SR-2 / Haar . Fig. 76p Angelina's denoised image via SR-2 / Coslet . Fig. 76q Angelina's denoised image via SR-3 / Haar . Fig. 76r Angelina's denoised image via SR-3 / Coslet . 4.2.2 Compression In fact , it is an over or super-compression , since this is an additional compression at which for example would do any signal ( or image ) compression algorithm used originally . Signals In here , we compare the three techniques of super-compression based in super-resolution of signals . TABLE VI COMPRESSION TECHNICS VS METRICS FOR ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHIC SIGNAL . Technique SR-1 / Haar SR-1 / Coslet SR-2 / Haar SR-2 / Coslet SR-3 / Haar SR-3 / Coslet MAE 0.2121 0.0004 0.2121 0.0003 0.2121 0.0073 Metrics MSE 0.1864 7.0095 e-07 0.1864 6.8737e-07 0.1839 0.0001 PSNR 47.7612 102.0105 47.7612 102.0955 47.8201 79.1020 Table VI shows us compression techniques vs metrics for an electrocardiographic signal with : CR = 2 ( over the compression of any signal compression algorithm ) PSS = 50 MI : it 's the same of Section 4.2.1 for the electrocardiographic signal . Besides , Table VI shows the absolute superiority of Coslet against Haar in all versions views . In Fig. 77 we can see compressed electrocardiographic signal for all versions . At first glance , they all look the same . However , Table VI shows a marked predominance of versions 1 and 2 with Coslets . Simulations with audio , i.e. , conversations , music and even the sound of gravitational waves have been conducted with identical results , too . However , the results in Table VI clearly show that electrocardiographic signals for versions 1 and 2 Coslets behaves as lossless . Fig. 77 Compressed electrocardiographic signal via : ( 1 , 1 ) SR-1 / Haar , ( 1 , 2 ) SR-1 / Coslet , ( 1 , 3 ) SR-2 / Haar , ( 2 , 1 ) SR2 / Coslet , ( 2 , 2 ) SR-3 / Haar , ( 2 , 3 ) SR-3 / Coslet . Images The same techniques of the previous case are applied here to the two-dimensional case on Angelina . Here too , Table VII shows a superiority of Coslet against Haar in all versions views , however , this superiority is not as overwhelming . In Fig. 78 we can see compressed image of Angelina for all versions . At first glance , they all look the same . However , Table VII shows a marked predominance of versions 1 and 2 with Coslets . Simulations with medical and satellite images have been conducted with identical results , too . However , the results in Table VII clearly does not indicate a behavior of lossless type in any version . TABLE VII COMPRESSION TECHNIQUES VS METRICS FOR ANGELINA . Technique SR-1 / Haar SR-1 / Coslet SR-2 / Haar SR-2 / Coslet SR-3 / Haar SR-3 / Coslet MAE 1.4306 1.0777 1.4288 1.0774 1.4283 1.0774 Metrics MSE 6.3992 2.9354 6.3973 2.9343 6.3986 2.9342 Table VII shows us compression techniques vs metrics for Angelina with : CR = 4 ( over the compression of any image compression algorithm , e.g. , JPEG [ 227 ] ) PSS = 75 MI : it 's the same of Section 4.2.1 for Angelina . PSNR 40.0695 43.4540 40.0707 43.4556 40.0699 43.4558 Fig. 78a Angelina's compressed image via SR-1 / Haar . Fig. 78b Angelina's compressed image via SR-1 / Coslet . Fig. 78c Angelina's compressed image via SR-2 / Haar . Fig. 78d Angelina's compressed image via SR-2 / Coslet . Fig. 78e Angelina's compressed image via SR-3 / Haar . Fig. 78f Angelina's compressed image via SR-3 / Coslet . 4.2.3 Super-resolution This technique is the decoder of the compression / decompression process of the previous section , both signals to images . Signals MI : it 's the same of Section 4.2.1 for the electrocardiographic signal . Images MI : it 's the same of Section 4.2.1 for Angelina . 4.2.4 Edge detection This technique was developed and simulated during this work . Signals In this case , this technique , i.e. FAT , it is known as flank detection , and it was seen in Section 3.3.1 . There is no equivalent to FAT in the case of signals to detect edges as in the case of images based on Roberts , Prewitt , Sobel and Canny . Images Techniques of edge detection base don Roberts , Prewitt , Canny and Sobel was seen in Section 2.5 , see Fig. 39 . On the other hand , attributes for edge detection of FAT were seen in Sections 3.3.2 ( Figures 49 to 52 ) , and 4.1.4 ( Fig. 73 ) . 4.2.5 Hardware and Software employed Finally , FAT was implemented in MATLAB ® R2015a ( Mathworks , Natick , MA ) [ 49 ] on a notebook with Intel ® Core ( TM ) i7-4702MQ CPU @ 2.20 GHz x 2 and 8 GB RAM on Microsoft ® Windows 7 © Ultimate 64 bits . Besides , since all algorithms are parallelizable , distributed implementations were done on a GPU cluster , NVIDIA ® Tesla © 2050 GPU [ 211 ] with a peak performance of approximately 500 GFLOPS , with an achieved performance of approximately 250 GFLOPS in OpenCL . The GPU needed approximately 2.5 GB of bandwidth with InfiniBand connectivity at quad data rate ( QDR ) QLogic ® [ 262 ] or 40 Gb speeds . 5 Conclusions and future works This work began with an extensive tour on traditional spectral techniques based on Fourier's Theory , without compact support and completely disconnected from the link between time and frequency , and the responsibility of each flank with respect to final spectral components of a signal , image or video . For that reason QuSA / FAT was created , i.e. , to cover such space and also as a complement to the aforementioned Fourier's Theory , in particular , FFT . A simply comparison between QuSA / FAT and FFT sheds some initial conclusions , which can be seen in Table VIII . Moreover , when the wave function collapses , we pass from QuSA to FAT . This point is essential , because of this begins to be necessary to use the Hadamard's quotient of vectors [ 80 ] . Other contributions of this work are : 1 ) One-dimension directional smoothing 2 ) One-dimension median filter 3 ) Coslet ( which turned out to be far superior to Haar ) 4 ) Super-resolution of signal and still images 5 ) Super-compression of signal and images ( in fact . three versions ) 6 ) Flank and edge detection via FAT . Etc. TABLE VIII COMPARISON BETWEEN FFT AND FAT Characteristics Separability Compact support Instantaneous spectral attributes 1D computational cost 2D computational cost Energy treatment Decimation Parallelization FFT Yes No No O ( N ) O ( N2 ) Disastrous In time or frequency No FAT Yes Yes Yes O ( N * log2 ( N )) O ( N2 * log2 ( N ) 2 ) Excelent It does not have Yes Regarding one-dimensional mask mentioned before , we can say : a ) a large mask loses detail , i.e. , it loses the texture of signal , it is of low frequency or approximation b ) a small mask emphasizes the details , i.e. , highlights the texture signal is high frequency or detail Otherwise , an interesting aspect is the following , there is a great affinity between the notion of contrast [ 255 ] and FAT , in fact , many different equations for contrast exist , e.g. : Contrast Change in Luminance Average Luminance ( 279 ) The Michalson's equation for contrast is : CM I max I min I max I min I ( 280 ) although : 1 ) These equations work well for simple images with 2 luminances ( i.e. uniform foreground and background ) 2 ) Does not work well for complex scenes with many luminances or if min and max intensities are small . In fact , FAT is a kind of contrast for each considered sample or pixel . This is fundamental , since a noncontrast image is an image without intelligibility . Regarding simulations : a ) Histograms were used in the calculation of mutual information , for this reason , they were not used explicitly . b ) No signal or image used in the simulations has an unstable behavior , which the phase diagrams are not simulated , they only mentioned it in character complementary to the techniques seen in this work . Finally , the applications of FAT are obvious , e.g. : - It 's a support and it allows a better understanding of the Information Theory and Quantum Information Theory aimed at improving current signal , image a video compression algorithms , and develop new . - Its applications range from filter design and signal analysis to phase retrieval and pattern recognition . - It 's an excellent complement to Spectrogram in speech processing - It 's very useful in radar signals analysis , analysis of phase migration in Synthetic Aperture Radar ( SAR ) raw data , Radioastronomy , sonar , etc. - It 's particularly useful in analysis of time-varying spectral characteristics - It represents a major contribution in Signals Intelligence ( SIGINT ) , Imagery Intelligence ( IMINT ) , and Communications Intelligence ( COMINT ) - It retains a direct relationship with compressed sensing - Besides , its applications are obvious in a fine processing signal , namely : power spectral density ( with a strict sense of time ) ; frequency-hopping spread spectrum ; analysis of stationarity ; time series analysis ; study of seismic signals , in general , and , earthquakes , in particular ; nonlinear spectral analysis ; nonlinear sampling for a most efficient compression schema instead of linear sampling ; biomedical signal and image analysis : electrocardiograph , electroencephalography , evoked potential , brain computer interface ; analysis , synthesis , and speech recognition , Bioinformatics : Signal Processing for DNA Sequence Analysis ; conditioning of acoustic spaces ; and Quantum Chaos . Finally , as we have already said , it is an extraordinary tool to assess the importance of the flanks ( or edges ) in a compression process weighting in real time and sample by sample ( or pixel by pixel ) the importance of temporal spectral components in the final result . References 1 . 2 . 3 . 4 . 5 . 6 . 7 . 8 . 9 . 10 . 11 . 12 . 13 . 14 . 15 . 16 . 17 . 18 . 19 . 20 . 21 . 22 . 23 . 24 . Nielsen , M.A. , Chuang , I.L. : Quantum Computation and Quantum Information . Cambridge University Press , Cambridge ( 2004 ) Benioff , P.A. : Quantum mechanical Hamiltonian models of Turing machines . J. Stat . Phys . 29 ( 3 ) , 515 – 546 ( 1982 ) Feynman , R. : Simulating physics with computers . Int . J. Theor . Phys . 21 ( 6 / 7 ) , 467 – 488 ( 1982 ) Feynman , R. : Quantum mechanical computers . Opt . News 11 , 11 – 20 ( 1985 ) Deutsch , D. : Quantum theory , the Church-Turing principle , and the universal quantum Turing machine . Proc . R. Soc. Lond . A400 , 97 – 117 ( 1985 ) Deutsch , D. , Jozsa , R. : Rapid solution of problems by quantum computation . Proc . R. Soc. Lond . A439 , 553 – 558 ( 1992 ) Simon , D. : On the power of quantum computation . SIAM J. Comput . 26 ( 5 ) , 1474 – 1483 ( 1997 ) Bernstein , E. , Vazirani , U. : Quantum complexity theory . SIAM J. Comput . 26 ( 5 ) , 1411 – 1473 ( 1997 ) Shor , P.W. : Polynomial-time algorithms for prime factorization and discrete logarithms on a quantum computer . SIAM J. Comput . 26 ( 5 ) , 1484 – 1509 ( 1997 ) , quant-ph / 9508027 Kaye , P. , Laflamme , R. , Mosca , M. : An Introduction to Quantum Computing . Oxford University Press , Oxford ( 2004 ) Stolze , J. , Suter , D. : Quantum Computing : A Short Course from Theory to Experiment . WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA , Weinheim ( 2007 ) Busemeyer , J.R. , Wang , Z. , Townsend , J.T. : Quantum dynamics of human decision-making . J. Math . Psychol . 50 , 220 – 241 ( 2006 ) doi : 10 . 1016 / j . jmp . 2006 . 01 . 003 Eldar , Y.C. : Quantum Signal Processing . Doctoral Thesis , MIT , Dec. 2001 Eldar , Y.C. , Oppenheim , A.V. : Quantum Signal Processing . Signal Process . Mag . 19 , 12 – 32 ( 2002 ) Vlaso , A. Y. : Quantum Computations and Images Recognition . arXiv : quant-ph / 9703010 ( 1997 ) Schützhold , R. : Pattern recognition on a quantum computer . Phy . Rev. A 67 ( 6 ) , 062311 ( 2003 ) Beach , G. , Lomont , C. , Cohen , C. : Quantum Image Processing ( QuIP ) . Proc . Appl . Imagery Pattern Recognit . Workshop , 39-44 ( 2003 ) Venegas-Andraca , S.E. , Bose , S. : Storing , processing and retrieving an image using quantum mechanics . Proc . SPIE Conf . Quantum Inf . Comput . vol. 5105 , 137 – 147 ( 2003 ) Venegas-Andraca , S.E. : Discrete Quantum Walks and Quantum Image Processing . Thesis submitted for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at the University of Oxford ( 2005 ) Venegas-Andraca , S.E. , Ball , J.L. : Processing images in entangled quantum systems . Quantum Inf . Process . 9 ( 1 ) , 1-11 ( 2010 ) Latorre , J.I. : Image compression and entanglement . arXiv : quant-ph / 0510031 ( 2005 ) Le , P.Q. , Dong , F. , Hirota , K. : A flexible representation of quantum images for polynomial preparation , image compression , and processing operations . Quantum Inf . Process . 10 ( 1 ) , 63-84 ( 2011 ) Sun , B. , Le , P.Q. , Iliyasu , A.M. , et al. : AMulti-channel representation for images on quantum computers using the RGB ? color space . Proc . IEEE 7th Intern . Symp . Intelligent Signal Processing , 160-165 ( 2011 ) Yan , F. , et al. : Assessing the Similarity of Quantum Images based on Probability Measurements . 2012 IEEE Cong . Evolutionary Computation ( CEC ) , 1-6 ( 2012 ) 25 . Le , P.Q. , Iliyasu , A.M. , Dong , F. , Hirota , K. : Efficient color transformations on quantum images . J. Adv . Comput . Intell . Intell . Inf . 15 ( 6 ) , 698-706 ( 2011 ) 26 . Le , P.Q. , Iliyasu , A.M. , Dong , F.Y. , Hirota , K. : Fast Geometric Transformations on Quantum Images . IAENG Intern . J. of Applied Mathematics . 40 ( 3 ) ( 2010 ) 27 . Le , P.Q. , Iliyasu , A.M. , Dong , F.Y. , Hirota , K. : Strategies for designing geometric transformations on quantum images . Theoretical Computer Science . 412 ( 15 ) , 1506-1418 ( 2011 ) 28 . Srivastava , M. , Panigrah , P.K. : Quantum Image Representation Through Two-Dimensional Quantum States and Normalized Amplitude . arXiv : quant-ph / 1305 . 2251 ( 2013 ) 29 . Li , H.S. , Zhu , Q.X. , Lan , S. , et al. : Image storage , retrieval , compression and segmentation in a quantum system . Quantum Inf . Process . 12 ( 6 ) , 2269-2290 ( 2013 ) 30 . Li , H.S. , Zhu , Q.X. Li , M.C. , et al. : Multidimensional color image storage , retrieval , and compression based on quantum amplitudes and phases . Information Sciences . 273 , 212-232 ( 2014 ) 31 . Hu , B.Q. , Huang , XD , Zhou , R.G. et al. : A theoretical framework for quantum image representation and data loading scheme Science China on Information Science . 57 ( 3 ) , 1-11 ( 2014 ) 32 . Zhang , Y. , Lu , K. , Gao , Y. , Wang , M. : NEQR : a novel enhanced quantum representation of digital images . Quantum Inf . Process . 12 ( 8 ) , 2833-2860 ( 2013 ) 33 . Wang , M. , Lu , K. , Zhang , Y. : FLPI : representation of quantum images for log-polar coordinate . Fifth Intern . Conf . on Digital Image Processing : ICDIP ' 2013 ( 2013 ) 34 . Zhang , Y. , Lu , K. , Gao , Y. , Wang , M. : A novel quantum representation for log-polar images . Quantum Inf . Process . 12 ( 8 ) , 3103-3126 ( 2013 ) 35 . Yuan , S. , Mao , X. , Chen , L. et al. : Quantum digital image processing algorithms based on quantum measurement . Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics . 124 ( 23 ) , 6386-6390 ( 2013 ) 36 . Yuan , S. , Mao , X. , Xue , Y. , et al. : SQR : a simple quantum representation of infrared images . Quantum Inf . Process . 13 ( 6 ) , 1353-1379 ( 2014 ) 37 . Zhang , W.W. , Gao , F. , Liu B. : A quantum watermark protocol . Int . J. Theor . Phys . 52 ( 2 ) , 504-513 ( 2013 ) 38 . Zhang , W.W. , Gao , F. , Liu B. , et al. : A watermark strategy for quantum images based on quantum fourier transform . Quantum Inf . Process . 12 ( 2 ) , 793-803 ( 2013 ) 39 . Yang , Y.G. , Xia , J. , Jia , X. , et al. : Novel image encryption / decryption based on quantum Fourier transform and double phase encoding . Quantum Inf . Process . 12 ( 11 ) , 3477-3493 ( 2013 ) 40 . Yang , Y.G. , Jia , X. , Sun , S.J. , et al. : Quantum cryptographic algorithm for color images using quantum Fourier transform and double random-phase encoding . Information Sciences . 277 , 445-457 ( 2014 ) 41 . Song , X.H. , Niu , X.M. : Comment on : Novel image encryption / decryption based on quantum fourier transform and double phase encoding . Quantum Inf . Process . 13 ( 6 ) , 1301-1304 ( 2014 ) 42 . Jiang , N. , Wu , W.Y. , Wang , L. : The quantum realization of Arnold and Fibonacci image scrambling Quantum Information Processing . Quantum Inf . Process . 13 ( 5 ) , 1223-1236 ( 2014 ) 43 . Zhou , R.G. , Wu , Q. , Zhang , M.Q. , Shen , C.Y. : Quantum image encryption and decryption algorithms based on quantum image geometric transformations . Int . J. Theor . Phys . 52 ( 6 ) , 1802-1817 ( 2013 ) 44 . Tseng , C.C. , Hwang , T.M. : Quantum Digital Image Processing Algorithms . 16th IPPR Conf . on Computer Vision , Graphics and Image Processing : CVGIP ' 2003 . Kinmen , Taiwang ( 2003 ) 45 . Jain , A.K. : Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing . Prentice Hall Inc. , Englewood Cliffs , NJ ( 1989 ) 46 . Gonzalez , R.C. , Woods , R.E. : Digital Image Processing , 2nd edn. Prentice-Hall , Englewood Cliffs ( 2002 ) 47 . Gonzalez , R.C. , Woods , R.E. , Eddins , S.L. : Digital Image Processing Using Matlab . Pearson Prentice Hall , Upper Saddle River ( 2004 ) 48 . Schalkoff , R.J. : Digital Image Processing and Computer Vision . Wiley , New York ( 1989 ) 49 . MATLAB ® R2015a ( Mathworks , Natick , MA ) . http://www.mathworks.com/ 50 . Mastriani , M. : Quantum Boolean image denoising . Springer Quantum Information Processing . 14 ( 5 ) , 1647-1673 ( 2015 ) 51 . Rivest , R. , Shamir , A. , Adleman , L. : A method for obtaining digital signatures and public key cryptosystems . Commun . ACM 21 , 120 – 126 ( 1978 ) 52 . van Leeuwen , J. ( ed . ) : Handbook of Theoretical Computer Science . Volume A : Algorithms and Complexity . MIT Press , Cambridge ( 1990 ) 53 . Bennett , C.H. , Brassard , G. : Quantum cryptography : Public key distribution and coin tossing . Proc . IEEE Intern . Confer . Computers , Systems and Signal Processing , 175 – 179 ( 1984 ) 54 . 55 . 56 . 57 . 58 . 59 . 60 . 61 . 62 . 63 . 64 . 65 . 66 . 67 . 68 . 69 . 70 . 71 . 72 . 73 . 74 . 75 . 76 . 77 . 78 . 79 . 80 . 81 . 82 . 83 . 84 . 85 . Lo , H. - K. , Zhao , Y. : Quantum Cryptography . arXiv : 0803 . 2507v4 [ quant-ph ] ( 2008 ) Wiesner , S. : Sigact News 15 , 78 ( 1983 ) Milburn , G.J. : Schrödinger's Machines . W. H. Freeman & Co. ( 1997 ) Dowling , J.P. , Milburn , G.J. : Quantum Technology : The Second Quantum Revolution . Phil . Trans . R. Soc. A 361 , 3655 ( 2003 ) Dowling , J.P. , Milburn , G.J. : Quantum Technology : The Second Quantum Revolution . arXiv : quantph / 0206091v1 Deutsch , D. : Physics , Philosophy , and Quantum Technology . Proc . Sixth Intern . Conf . Quantum Communication , Measurement and Computing . Shapiro , J.H. , Hirota , O. ( eds ) . Rinton Press , Princeton , NJ ( 2003 ) Cappellaro , P. : Implementation of State Transfer Hamiltonians in Spin Chains with Magnetic Resonance Techniques . Quantum State Transfer and Network Engineering , 183-222 ( 2014 ) Aiello , C.D. , Cappellaro , P. : Time-optimal control by a quantum actuator . Phys . Rev. A 91 , 042340 ( 2015 ) Cappellaro , P. : Polarizing Nuclear Spins in Silicon Carbide . Physics , 56 ( 2015 ) Cappellaro , P. , et al. : Fourier magnetic imaging with nanoscale resolution and compressed sensing speed-up using electronic spins in diamond . Nature Nanotechnology advance online publication ( 2015 ) doi : 10 . 1038 / nnano . 2015 . 171 Hales , L. , Hallgren , S. : An Improved Quantum Fourier Transform Algorithm and Applications . 41st Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science ( FOCS ) . Nov. 2000 , Redondo Beach , California ( 2000 ) Preskill , J. : Chapter 5 of his lecture notes : Lecture notes on Quantum Information Theory http://www.theory.caltech.edu/~preskill/ph229/#lecture Weedbrook , C. , et al. : Gaussian quantum information . Rev. Mod . Phys . 84 , 621 ( 2012 ) Miguéns , J.I.L. : Quantum Data Compression . Thesis submitted for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at the Aalborg University ( 2003 ) Schumacher , B. : Quantum coding . Phys . Rev. A , 51 ( 4 ) , 2738-2747 ( 1995 ) Boström , K. , Felbinger , T. : Lossless quantum data compression and variable-length coding "" , Phys . Rev. A 65 , 032313 ( 2002 ) quant-ph / 0105026 Jozsa , R. , Presnell , S. : Universal quantum information compression and degree of prior knowledge . ( 2002 ) quant-ph / 0210196 . Jozsa , R. , Horodecki , M. , Horodecki , R. , Horodecki , P. : Universal Quantum Information Compression "" , Phys . Rev. Lett . , 21 ( 8 ) , 1714-1717 ( 1998 ) Wikipedia . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fourier_transform Hsu , H.P. : Fourier Analysis . Simon & Schuster , New York ( 1970 ) Wikipedia . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discrete_Fourier_transform Tolimieri R. , An M. , Lu C. : Algorithms for Discrete Fourier Transform and convolution . Springer Verlag , New York ( 1997 ) Tolimieri R. , An M. , Lu C. : Mathematics of multidimensional Fourier Transform Algorithms . Springer Verlag , New York ( 1997 ) Briggs , W.L. , Van Emden , H. : The DFT : An Owner's Manual for the Discrete Fourier Transform . SIAM , Philadelphia ( 1995 ) Oppenheim , A.V , Willsky , A.S. , Nawab , S. H. : Signals and Systems . Second Edition , Prentice Hall , Upper Saddle River , NJ ( 1997 ) Oppenheim , A.V , Schafer , R.W. : Digital Signal Processing . Prentice Hall , Englewood Cliffs , NJ ( 1975 ) De Graeve , R. , Parisse , B. : Symbolic algebra and Mathematics with Xcas . University of Grenoble I ( 2007 ) https://www-fourier.ujf-grenoble.fr/~parisse/giac/cascmd_en.pdf Wikipedia . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_Fourier_transform Van Loan , C. : Computational Frameworks for the Fast Fourier Transform , SIAM ( 1992 ) Heideman , M.T. , Johnson , D.H. , Burrus , C.S. : Gauss and the history of the fast Fourier transform . IEEE ASSP Magazine 1 ( 4 ) , 14 – 21 ( 1984 ) doi : 10 . 1109 / MASSP . 1984 . 1162257 Strang , G. : Wavelets . American Scientist 82 ( 3 ) , 253 ( 1994 ) Dongarra , J. , Sullivan , F : Guest Editors Introduction to the top 10 algorithms . Computing in Science Engineering 2 ( 1 ) , 22 – 23 ( 2000 ) doi : 10 . 1109 / MCISE . 2000 . 814652 . ISSN 1521-9615 86 . Heideman , M.T. , Johnson , D.H. , Burrus , C.S. : Gauss and the history of the fast Fourier transform . Archive for History of Exact Sciences 34 ( 3 ) : 265 – 277 ( 1985 ) doi : 10 . 1007 / BF00348431 . ISSN 00039519 87 . Yates , F. : The design and analysis of factorial experiments . Technical Communication no . 35 of the Commonwealth Bureau of Soils ( 1937 ) 88 . Danielson , G.C. , Lanczos , C. : Some improvements in practical Fourier analysis and their application to x-ray scattering from liquids . Journal of the Franklin Institute 233 ( 4 ) : 365 – 380 ( 1942 ) doi : 10 . 1016 / S0016-0032 ( 42 ) 90767-1 89 . Cooley , J.W. , Lewis , P.A.W. , Welch , P.D. : Historical notes on the fast Fourier transform . IEEE Transactions on Audio and Electroacoustics 15 ( 2 ) : 76 – 79 ( 1967 ) doi : 10 . 1109 / TAU . 1967 . 1161903 90 . Cooley , J.W. , Tukey , J.W. : An algorithm for the machine calculation of complex Fourier series . Mathematics of Computation 19 ( 90 ) : 297 – 301 ( 1965 ) doi : 10 . 1090 / S0025-5718-1965-0178586-1 91 . Rockmore , D.N. : The FFT : an algorithm the whole family can use . Computing in Science Engineering 2 ( 1 ) : 60 – 64 ( 2000 ) doi : 10 . 1109 / 5992 . 814659 92 . Wikipedia . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncertainty_principle 93 . Wikipedia . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Short-time_Fourier_transform 94 . Sejdić , E. , Djurović , I. , Jiang , J. : Time-frequency feature representation using energy concentration : An overview of recent advances . Digital Signal Processing . 19 ( 1 ) , 153-183 ( 2009 ) 95 . Jacobsen , E. , Lyons , R. : The sliding DFT . Signal Processing Magazine . 20 ( 2 ) , 74 – 80 ( 2003 ) 96 . Allen , J.B. : Short Time Spectral Analysis , Synthesis , and Modification by Discrete Fourier Transform . IEEE Trans . on Acoustics , Speech , and Signal Processing . ASSP-25 ( 3 ) , 235 – 238 ( 1977 ) 97 . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gabor_transform 98 . Ding , J.J. : Time frequency analysis and wavelet transform class note , the Department of Electrical Engineering , National Taiwan University ( NTU ) , Taipei , Taiwan ( 2007 ) 99 . Wikipedia . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fractional_Fourier_transform 100 . Condon , E.U. : Immersion of the Fourier transform in a continuous group of functional transformations . Proc . Nat . Acad . Sci . USA 23 , 158 – 164 ( 1937 ) 101 . Namias , V. : The fractional order Fourier transform and its application to quantum mechanics . J. Inst . Appl . Math . 25 , 241 – 265 ( 1980 ) 102 . Wiener , N. : Hermitian Polynomials and Fourier Analysis . J. Mathematics and Physics 8 , 70-73 ( 1929 ) 103 . Almeida , L.B. : The fractional Fourier transform and time-frequency representations . IEEE Trans . Sig . Processing 42 ( 11 ) , 3084 – 3091 ( 1994 ) 104 . Tao , R. , Deng , B. , Zhang , W. - Q , Wang , Y. : Sampling and sampling rate conversion of band limited signals in the fractional Fourier transform domain . IEEE Trans . on Signal Processing , 56 ( 1 ) , 158 – 171 ( 2008 ) 105 . Bhandari , A. , Marziliano , P. : Sampling and reconstruction of sparse signals in fractional Fourier domain . IEEE Signal Processing Letters , 17 ( 3 ) , 221 – 224 ( 2010 ) 106 . Bailey , D.H. , Swarztrauber , P.N. : The fractional Fourier transform and applications . SIAM Review 33 , 389-404 ( 1991 ) 107 . Shi , J. , Zhang , N. - T. , Liu , X. - P. : A novel fractional wavelet transform and its applications . Sci . China Inf . Sci . 55 ( 6 ) , 1270-1279 ( 2012 ) 108 . De Bie , H. : Fourier transform and related integral transforms in superspace . ( 2008 ) http://www.arxiv.org/abs/0805.1918 109 . Fan , H. - Y. , Hu , L. - Y. : Optical transformation from chirplet to fractional Fourier transformation kernel ( 2009 ) http://www.arxiv.org/abs/0902.1800 110 . Klappenecker , A. , Roetteler , M. : Engineering Functional Quantum Algorithms ( 2002 ) http://www.arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0208130 111 . Sejdić , E. , Djurović , I. , Stanković , L.J. : Fractional Fourier transform as a signal processing tool : An overview of recent developments . Signal Processing . 91 ( 6 ) , 1351-1369 ( 2011 ) 112 . Pégard , N.C. , Fleischer , J.W. : Optimizing holographic data storage using a fractional Fourier transform . Opt . Lett . 36 , 2551-2553 ( 2011 ) 113 . Wikipedia . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wavelet_transform 114 . Meyer , Y. : Wavelets and Operators . Cambridge : Cambridge University Press . ( 1992 ) 115 . Chui , C.K. : An Introduction to Wavelets . San Diego : Academic Press . ( 1992 ) 116 . Akansu , A.N. , Haddad , R.A. : Multiresolution Signal Decomposition : Transforms , Subbands , Wavelets . San Diego : Academic Press . ( 1992 ) 117 . Wikipedia . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JPEG_2000 118 . Malmurugan , N. , Shanmugam , A. , Jayaraman , S. , Chander , V.V.D. : A New and Novel Image Compression Algorithm Using Wavelet Footprints . Academic Open Internet Journal . 14 ( 2005 ) 119 . Ho , T.W. , Jeoti , V. : A wavelet footprints-based compression scheme for ECG signals . IEEE Region 10 Conference TENCON 2004 . A. , 283 . ( 2004 ) doi : 10 . 1109 / TENCON . 2004 . 1414412 120 . Krantz , S.G. : A Panorama of Harmonic Analysis . Mathematical Association of America . ( 1999 ) 121 . Drozdov , A. : Comparison of wavelet transform and fourier transform applied to analysis of nonstationary processes . Nanosystems : physics , chemistry , mathematics 5 : 363 – 373 . ( 2014 ) 122 . Martin , E. : Novel method for stride length estimation with body area network accelerometers . IEEE BioWireless 2011 , Univ. of California , Berkeley , CA , USA , 79-82 ( 2011 ) 123 . Liu , J. : Shannon wavelet spectrum analysis on truncated vibration signals for machine incipient fault detection . Measurement Science and Technology 23 ( 5 ) : 1 – 11 ( 2012 ) doi : 10 . 1088 / 09570233 / 23 / 5 / 055604 124 . Akansu , A.N. , Serdijn , W.A. , Selesnick , I.W. : Emerging applications of wavelets : A review . Physical Communication 3 : 1 . ( 2010 ) doi : 10 . 1016 / j . phycom . 2009 . 07 . 001 125 . Donoho , D.L. : De-noising by soft-thresholding . IEEE Trans . Inform . Theory . 41 ( 3 ) , 613-627 ( 1995 ) 126 . Donoho , D.L. , Johnstone , I.M. : Adapting to unknown smoothness via wavelet shrinkage . Journal of the American Statistical Assoc. 90 ( 432 ) , 1200-1224 ( 1995 ) 127 . Donoho , D.L. , Johnstone , I.M. : Ideal spatial adaptation by wavelet shrinkage . Biometrika . 81 , 425-455 ( 1994 ) 128 . Daubechies , I. : Ten Lectures on Wavelets . SIAM , Philadelphia , PA ( 1992 ) 129 . Daubechies , I. : Different Perspectives on Wavelets . Proceedings of Symposia in Applied Mathematics , vol. 47 , American Mathematical Society , USA ( 1993 ) 130 . Mallat , S.G. : A theory for multiresolution signal decomposition : The wavelet representation . IEEE Trans . Pattern Anal . Machine Intell . 11 ( 7 ) , 674 – 693 ( 1989 ) 131 . Mallat , S.G. : Multiresolution approximations and wavelet orthonormal bases of L2 ( R ) . Transactions of the American Mathematical Society , 315 ( 1 ) , 69-87 ( 1989 ) 132 . Zhang , X. - P. , Desai , M. : Nonlinear adaptive noise suppression based on wavelet transform . Proceedings of the ICASSP98 , vol. 3 , 1589-1592 , Seattle ( 1998 ) 133 . Zhang , X. - P. : Thresholding Neural Network for Adaptive Noise reduction . IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks . 12 ( 3 ) , 567-584 ( 2001 ) 134 . Zhang , X. - P. , Desai , M. : Adaptive Denoising Based On SURE Risk . IEEE Signal Proc . Letters . 5 ( 10 ) , 265-267 ( 1998 ) 135 . Zhang , X. - P. , Luo , Z.Q. : A new time-scale adaptive denoising method based on wavelet shrinkage . Proceedings of the ICASSP99 , Phoenix , AZ . , March 15-19 ( 1999 ) 136 . Lang , M. , Guo , H. , Odegard , J. , Burrus , C. , Wells , R. : Noise reduction using an undecimated discrete wavelet transform . IEEE Signal Proc . Letters , 3 ( 1 ) , 10-12 ( 1996 ) 137 . Chipman , H. , Kolaczyk , E. , McCulloch , R. : Adaptive Bayesian wavelet shrinkage . J. Amer . Statist . Assoc. 92 , 1413 – 1421 ( 1997 ) 138 . Chang , S.G. , Yu , B. , Vetterli , M. : Spatially adaptive wavelet thresholding with context modeling for image denoising . IEEE Trans . Image Processing . 9 ( 9 ) , 1522 – 1531 ( 2000 ) 139 . Chang , S.G. , Yu , B. , Vetterli , M. : Adaptive wavelet thresholding for image denoising and compression . IEEE Trans . Image Processing . 9 ( 9 ) , 1532 – 1546 ( 2000 ) 140 . Chang , S.G. , Vetterli , M. : Spatial adaptive wavelet thresholding for image denoising . Proc . ICIP . vol. 1 , 374 – 377 ( 1997 ) 141 . Crouse , M.S. , Nowak , R.D. , Baraniuk , R.G. : Wavelet-based statistical signal processing using hidden Markov models . IEEE Trans . Signal Processing . 46 ( 4 ) , 886 – 902 ( 1998 ) 142 . Malfait , M. , Roose , D. : Wavelet-based image denoising using a Markov random field a priori model . IEEE Trans . Image Processing . 6 ( 4 ) , 549 – 565 ( 1997 ) 143 . Mihcak , M.K. , Kozintsev , I. , Ramchandran , K. , Moulin , P. : Low complexity image denoising based on statistical modeling of wavelet coefficients . IEEE Trans . Signal Processing Lett . 6 ( 12 ) , 300 – 303 ( 1999 ) 144 . Simoncelli , E.P. : Bayesian denoising of visual images in the wavelet domain . Bayesian Inference in Wavelet Based Models . New York : Springer-Verlag , pp. 291 – 308 ( 1999 ) 145 . Simoncelli , E. , Adelson , E. : Noise removal via Bayesian wavelet coring . Proc . ICIP , vol. 1 , pp. 379 – 382 ( 1996 ) 146 . Belge , M. , Kilmer , M.E. , Miller , E.L. : Wavelet domain image restoration with adaptive edge-preserving regularization . IEEE Trans . Image Processing . 9 ( 4 ) , 597 – 608 ( 2000 ) 147 . Liu , J. , Moulin , P. : Information-theoretic analysis of interscale and intrascale dependencies between image wavelet coefficients . IEEE Trans . Image Processing . 10 ( 11 ) , 1647 – 1658 ( 2000 ) 148 . Guo , H. , Odegard , J.E. , Lang , M. , Gopinath , R.A. , Selesnick , I. , Burrus , C.S. : Speckle reduction via wavelet shrinkage with application to SAR based ATD / R. Technical Report CML TR94-02 , CML , Rice University , Houston ( 1994 ) 149 . Coifman , R.R. , Donoho , D.L. : Translation-invariant de-noising . A. Antoniadis & G. Oppenheim ( eds ) , Lecture Notes in Statistics . Springer-Verlag . vol. 103 , pp 125-150 ( 1995 ) 150 . Misiti , M. , Misiti , Y. , Oppenheim , G. , Poggi , J.M. : Wavelet Toolbox , for use with MATLAB ® , User's guide , R2015b ( 2015 ) http://www.mathworks.com/help/pdf_doc/wavelet/wavelet_ug.pdf 151 . Burrus , C.S. , Gopinath , R.A. , Guo , H. : Introduction to Wavelets and Wavelet Transforms : A Primer . Prentice Hall , New Jersey ( 1998 ) 152 . Hubbard , B.B. : The World According to Wavelets : The Story of a Mathematical Technique in the Making . A. K. Peter Wellesley Eds . , Massachusetts ( 1996 ) 153 . Grossman , A. , Morlet , J. : Decomposition of Hardy Functions into Square Integrable Wavelets of Constant Shape . SIAM J. App Math . vol. 15 , 723-736 ( 1984 ) 154 . Valens , C. : A really friendly guide to wavelets ( 2004 ) http://perso.wanadoo.fr/polyvalens/ clemens / wavelets / wavelets . html 155 . Kaiser , G. : A Friendly Guide To Wavelets . Boston : Birkhauser ( 1994 ) 156 . Walker , J.S. : A Primer on Wavelets and their Scientific Applications . Chapman & Hall / CRC , New York ( 1999 ) 157 . Stollnitz , E.J. , DeRose , T.D. , Salesin , D.H. : Wavelets for Computer Graphics : Theory and Applications . Morgan Kaufmann Publishers , San Francisco ( 1996 ) 158 . Shen , J. , Strang , G. : The zeros of the Daubechies polynomials . Proc . American Mathematical Society ( 1996 ) 159 . Yu , R. , Allen , A.R. , Watson , J. : An optimal wavelet thresholding for speckle noise reduction . Summer School on Wavelets : Papers , Publisher : Silesian Technical University , Gliwice , Poland . 77-81 ( 1996 ) 160 . Gao , H.Y. , Bruce , A.G. : WaveShrink with firm shrinkage . Statistica Sinica . 7 , 855-874 ( 1997 ) 161 . Gagnon , L. , Smaili , F.D. : Speckle noise reduction of airborne SAR images with Symmetric Daubechies Wavelets . SPIE Proc . # 2759 . 14-24 ( 1996 ) . 162 . Mastriani , M. , Giraldez , A. : Smoothing of coefficients in wavelet domain for speckle reduction in Synthetic Aperture Radar images . ICGST International Journal on Graphics , Vision and Image Processing ( GVIP ) . 5 ( 6 ) , 1-8 ( 2005 ) 163 . Mastriani , M. , Giraldez , A. : Despeckling of SAR images in wavelet domain . GIS Development Magazine . 9 ( 9 ) , 38-40 ( 2005 ) 164 . Mastriani , M. : Denoising based on wavelets and deblurring via self-organizing map for Synthetic Aperture Radar images . International Journal of Signal Processing . 2 ( 4 ) , 226-235 ( 2005 ) 165 . Mastriani , M. : Systholic Boolean Orthonormalizer Network in Wavelet Domain for Microarray Denoising . International Journal of Signal Processing . 2 ( 4 ) , 273-284 ( 2005 ) 166 . Mastriani , M. , Giraldez , A. : Microarrays denoising via smoothing of coefficients in wavelet domain . International Journal of Biomedical Sciences . 1 ( 1 ) , 7-14 ( 2006 ) 167 . Mastriani , M. , Giraldez , A. : Kalman ' Shrinkage for Wavelet-Based Despeckling of SAR Images . International Journal of Intelligent Technology . 1 ( 3 ) , 190-196 ( 2006 ) 168 . Mastriani , M. , Giraldez , A. : Neural Shrinkage for Wavelet-Based SAR Despeckling . International Journal of Intelligent Technology . 1 ( 3 ) , 211-222 ( 2006 ) 169 . Mastriani , M. : Fuzzy Thresholding in Wavelet Domain for Speckle Reduction in Synthetic Aperture Radar Images . International Journal of Intelligent Technology . 1 ( 3 ) , 252-265 ( 2006 ) 170 . Mastriani , M. : New Wavelet-Based Superresolution Algorithm for Speckle Reduction in SAR Images . International Journal of Computer Science . 1 ( 4 ) , 291-298 ( 2006 ) 171 . Mastriani , M. , Giraldez , A. : Enhanced Directional Smoothing Algorithm for Edge-Preserving Smoothing of Synthetic-Aperture Radar Images . Journal of Measurement Science Review . 4 ( 3 ) , 1-11 ( 2004 ) 172 . Yu , Y. , Acton , S.T. : Speckle Reducing Anisotropic Diffusion . IEEE Trans . on Image Proc . 11 ( 11 ) , 1260-1270 ( 2002 ) 173 . Tan , H.S. : Denoising of Noise Speckle in Radar Image . B.E. Thesis , School of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering . The University of Queensland , October 2001 174 . MATLAB Central - ECG signal database - MathWorks http://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/newsreader/view_thread/335510 175 . Wikipedia . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Savitzky-Golay_filter 176 . Whittaker , E.T. , Robinson , G. : The Calculus of Observations . Blackie & Son Ed . ( 1924 ) 177 . Guest , P.G. : Numerical Methods of Curve Fitting . Cambridge University Press . ( 2012 ) 178 . Savitzky , A. , Golay , M.J.E. : Smoothing and Differentiation of Data by Simplified Least Squares Procedures . Analytical Chemistry 36 ( 8 ) : 1627 – 39 ( 1964 ) 179 . Savitzky , A. : A Historic Collaboration . Analytical Chemistry 61 ( 15 ) : 921A – 3A ( 1989 ) 180 . Steinier , J. , Termonia , Y. , Deltour , J. : Smoothing and differentiation of data by simplified least square procedure . Analytical Chemistry 44 ( 11 ) : 1906 – 9 ( 1972 ) 181 . Larive , C.K. , Sweedler , J.V. : Celebrating the 75th Anniversary of the ACS Division of Analytical Chemistry : A Special Collection of the Most Highly Cited Analytical Chemistry Papers Published between 1938 and 2012 . Analytical Chemistry 85 ( 0 ) : 4201 – 2 ( 2013 ) 182 . Riordon , J. , Zubritsky , E. , Newman , A. : Top 10 Articles . Analytical Chemistry 72 ( 9 ) : 24 A – 329 A. ( 2000 ) 183 . Press , W.H. , Teukolsky , S.A. , Vetterling , W.T. , Flannery , B.P. : Numerical Recipes in C : The Art of Scientific Computing . 2nd Edition . Cambridge University Press . ( 2002 ) 184 . Hamming , R.W. : Digital Filters . 2nd ed . Englewood Cliffs , NJ : Prentice-Hall ( 1983 ) 185 . Ziegler , H. : Applied Spectroscopy . 35 : 88 – 92 ( 1981 ) 186 . Bromba , M.U.A. , Ziegler , H. : Analytical Chemistry . 53 : 1583 – 1586 ( 1981 ) 187 . Krumm , J. : Savitzky-Golay Filters for 2D Images . Microsoft Research ( 2001 ) http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/jckrumm/SavGol/SavGol.htm 188 . Mastriani , M. : Single frame supercompression of still images , video , High Definition TV and Digital Cinema . International Journal of Engineering and Mathematical Sciences . 6 ( 3 ) , 146-162 ( 2010 ) 189 . Gilman , A. , Bailey , D.G. , Marsland , S.R. : Interpolation Models for Image Super-resolution . Proc . 4th IEEE International Symposium on Electronic Design , Test & Applications , DELTA 2008 , Hong Kong , 55-60 ( 2008 ) http://www.wisdom.weizmann.ac.il/~vision/single_image_SR/files/single_image_SR.pdf 190 . Glassner , D. , Bagon , S. , Irani , M. : Super-Resolution from a Single Image . http://graphicon.ru/oldgr/en/publications/text/LukinKrylovNasonov.pdf 191 . Lukin , A. , Krylov , A.S. , Nasonov , A. : Image Interpolation by Super-Resolution . 192 . Huang , Y. : Wavelet-based image interpolation using multilayer perceptrons . Neural Comput . & Applic . , 14 , 1-10 ( 2005 ) 193 . Mueller , N. , Lu , Y. , Do , M.N. : Image interpolation using multiscale geometric representations . Proc . SPIE Conf . on Electronic Imaging , San Jose , USA ( 2007 ) http://lu.seas.harvard.edu/files/yuelu/files/interp_contourlet.pdf 194 . Kraus , M. , Eissele , M. , Strengert , M. : GPU-Based Edge-Directed Image Interpolation . http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.69.5655 195 . - . NVIDIA CUDA : Best Practices Guide , version 3.0 , 2 / 4 / 2010 . http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/3_0/toolkit/docs/NVIDIA_CUDA_BestPracticesG uide . pdf 196 . Podlozhnyuk , V. : Image Convolution with CUDA , June 2007 . http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/1_1/Website/projects/convolutionSeparable/doc/co nvolutionSeparable . pdf 197 . Simek , V. , Rakesh , R. : GPU Acceleration of 2D-DWT Image Compression in MATLAB with CUDA . Proc . Second UKSIM European Symposium on Computer Modeling and Simulations . Liverpool , UK . 274-277 ( 2008 ) 198 . Wittman , T.C. : Variational Approaches to Digital Zooming . Ph.D. dissertation , Dept. Math , Univ. of Minnesota , Saint Paul , MN ( 2006 ) 199 . Mastriani , M. : Denoising and compression in wavelet domain via projection onto approximation coefficients . International Journal of Signal Processing . 5 ( 1 ) , 20-30 ( 2009 ) 200 . Kim , C. , Choi , K. , Hwang , K. , Beom Ra , J. : Learning-based super-resolution using a multi-resolution wavelet approach . http://www-isl.kaist.ac.kr/Papers/IC/ic123.pdf 201 . Boon , C.S. , Guleryuz , O.G. , Kawahara , T. , Suzuki , Y. : Sparse super-resolution reconstructions of video from mobile devices in digital TV broadcast applications . Proc . SPIE Conf . on Applications of Digital Image Processing XXIX , in Algorithms , Architectures , and Devices , San Diego , CA , Aug. 2006 . 202 . Richardson , I.E. : H. 264 and MPEG-4 Video Compression : Video Coding for Next Generation Multimedia , Ed . Wiley , N.Y. ( 2003 ) 203 . Goldberg , D.E. : Genetic Algorithms in Search , Optimization , and Machine Learning , Ed . Pearson , N.Y. ( 1989 ) 204 . Jain , R. , Kasturi , R. , Schunck , B.G. : Machine Vision . McGraw-Hill , N.Y. ( 1995 ) 205 . Preskill , J. : Chapter 2 , Lecture Notes of Quantum Computation ( 2015 ) http://www.theory.caltech.edu/people/preskill/ph229/ 206 . Gonorovski , I.S. : Señales y Circuitos Radiotécnicos ( in spanish ) . Ed . MIR , Moscú ( 1972 ) 207 . Oppenheim , A.V. , Willsky , A.S. , and , Nawab , S.H. : Signals and Systems , Second Edition . Upper Saddle River , NJ : Prentice-Hall , Inc. ( 1997 ) 208 . Briggs , W.L. , and , Van Emden H. : The DFT : An Owner's Manual for the Discrete Fourier Transform , SIAM , Philadelphia ( 1995 ) 209 . Oppenheim , A.V. , and , Schafer , R.W. : Discrete-Time Signal Processing , Third Edition . Upper Saddle River , NJ : Prentice-Hall , Inc. ( 2010 ) 210 . Oppenheim , A.V. , and , Schafer , R.W. , and , Buck , J.R. : Discrete-Time Signal Processing , Second Edition . Upper Saddle River , NJ : Prentice-Hall , Inc. ( 1999 ) 211 . NVIDIA ® Tesla © 2050 GPU . http://www.nvidia.com/ 212 . Borman , S. , and , Stevenson , R. : Image sequence processing . Department , Ed . Marcel Dekker , New York , 2003 . pp. 840-879 . 213 . Semmlow , J.L. : Biosignal and biomedical image processing : MATLAB-Based applications , Marcel Dekker , Inc. , New York , 2004 . 214 . Epstein , B.R. , et al : Multispectral KLT-wavelet data compression for landsat thematic mapper images . In Data Compression Conference , pp. 200-208 , Snowbird , UT , March 1992 . 215 . Lee , J. : Optimized quadtree for Karhunen-Loève Transform in multispectral image coding . IEEE Transactions on Image Processing , 8 ( 4 ) , pp. 453-461 , 1999 . 216 . Saghri , J.A. , et al : Practical Transform coding of multispectral imagery . IEEE Signal Processing Magazine , 12 , pp. 32-43 , 1995 . 217 . Kim , T - S. , et al : Multispectral image data compression using classified prediction and KLT in wavelet transform domain . IEICE Transactions on Fundam Electron Commun Comput Sci , Vol. E86-A ; No. 6 , pp. 1492-1497 , 2003 . 218 . Christophe , E. , et al : Hyperspectral image compression : adapting SPIHT and EZW to anisotopic 3D wavelet coding . Submitted to IEEE Transactions on Image processing , pp. 1-13 , 2006 . 219 . Rodríguez del Río , L.S. : Fast piecewise linear predictors for lossless compression of hyperspectral imagery . Thesis for Degree in Master of Science in Electrical Engineering , University of Puerto Rico , Mayaguez Campus , 2003 . 220 . - . Hyperspectral Data Compression . Edited by Giovanni Motta , Francesco Rizzo and James A. Storer , Chapter 3 , Springer , New York , 2006 . 221 . Wien , M. : Variable Block-Size Transforms for Hybrid Video Coding , Degree Thesis , Institut für Nachrichtentechnik der Rheinisch-Westfälischen Technischen Hchschule Aachen , February 2004 . 222 . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_codec 223 . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VP9 224 . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VP9#VP10 225 . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H.264/MPEG-4_AVC 226 . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_Efficiency_Video_Coding 227 . Miano , J. : Compressed image file formats : JPEG , PNG , GIF , XBM , BMP . ACM Press / Addison-Wesley Publishing Co. New York , NY , USA ( 1999 ) 228 . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MP3 229 . Khayam , S.A. : The Discrete Cosine Transform ( DCT ) : Theory and Application Technical Report , WAVES-TR-ECE802 . 602 ( 2003 ) 230 . Strang , G. : The Discrete Cosine Transform . SIAM Review , Volume 41 , Number 1 , pp. 135-147 ( 1999 ) 231 . Hung , A.C. , and , Meng , TH-Y : A Comparison of fast DCT algorithms . Multimedia Systems , No. 5 Vol. 2 , Dec ( 1994 ) 232 . Aggarwal , G. , and , Gajski , D.D. : Exploring DCT Implementations . UC Irvine , Technical Report ICSTR-98-10 , March ( 1998 ) 233 . Blinn , J.F. : What 's the Deal with the DCT . IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications , pp. 78-83 , July ( 1993 ) 234 . Chiu , C.T. , and , Liu , K.J.R. : Real-Time Parallel and Fully Pipelined 2-D DCT Lattice Structures with Application to HDTV Systems . IEEE Trans . on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology , vol. 2 pp. 25-37 , March ( 1992 ) 235 . Haque , M.A. : A Two-Dimensional Fast Cosine Transform . IEEE Transactions on Acoustics , Speech and Signal Processing , vol. ASSP-33 pp. 1532-1539 , December ( 1985 ) 236 . Vetterli , M. : Fast 2-D Discrete Cosine Transform . Proceedings of the IEEE ICASSP ' 85 , Tampa , FL , pp. 1538 – 1541 , March ( 1985 ) 237 . Kamangar , F.A. , and , Rao , K.R. : Fast Algorithms for the 2-D Discrete Cosine Transform . IEEE Transactions on Computers , vol. 31 Issue 9 , pp. 899-906 , September ( 1982 ) 238 . Linzer , E.N. , and , Feig , E. : New Scaled DCT Algorithms for Fused Multiply / Add Architectures . ICASSP ' 91 , pp. 2201-2204 ( 1991 ) 239 . Loeffler , C. , Ligtenberg , A. , and Moschytz , G. : Practical Fast 1-D DCT Algorithms with 11 Multiplications . ICASSP ' 89 , pp. 988-991 ( 1989 ) 240 . Duhamel , P. , Guillemot , C. , and Carlach , J.C. : A DCT Chip based on a new Structured and Computationally Efficient DCT Algorithm . ICCAS ' 90 , pp. 77-80 ( 1990 ) 241 . Cho , N.I. , and , Lee , S.U. : Fast Algorithm and Implementation of 2-D DCT . IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems , vol. 38 no . 3 pp. 297-305 , March ( 1991 ) 242 . Cho , N.I. , Yun , I.D. , and , Lee , S.U. : A Fast Algorithm for 2-D DCT . ICASSP ' 91 , pp. 2197-2220 , ( 1991 ) 243 . McMillan , L. , and Westover , L. : A Forward-Mapping Realization of the Inverse DCT . DCC ' 92 , pp. 219 ( 1992 ) 244 . Duhamel , P. , and , Guillemot , C. : Polynomial Transform Computation of the 2-D DCT . ICASSP ' 90 , pp. 1515-1518 ( 1990 ) 245 . - , The transform and data compression handbook , Edited by K.R. Rao , and P.C. Yip , CRC Press Inc. , Boca Raton , FL , USA ( 2001 ) 246 . Mastriani , M. , and , Gambini , J. : Fast Cosine Transform to Increase Speed-up and Efficiency of Karhunen-Loève Transform for Lossy Image Compression . International Journal of Engineering and Mathematical Sciences , vol. 6 , No 2 , pp. 82-92 ( 2010 ) 247 . Britanak , B. , Yip , P. , and , Rao , K.R. : Discrete cosine and sine transforms : General properties , fast algorithms and integer approximations . Academic Press , N.Y. ( 2006 ) 248 . Pennebaker , W.B. , and , Mitchell , J.L. : JPEG – Still Image Data Compression Standard . New York : International Thomsan Publishing ( 1993 ) 249 . Clark , R.J. : Transform Coding of Images . New York : Academic Press ( 1985 ) 250 . Goldberg , D.E. : Genetic Algorithms in Search , Optimization , and Machine Learning . Ed . Pearson , N.Y. ( 1989 ) 251 . Gilman , A. , Bailey , D.G. , and , Marsland , S.R. : Interpolation Models for Image Super-resolution . In Proc . 4th IEEE International Symposium on Electronic Design , Test & Applications , DELTA 2008 , Hong Kong , pp. 55-60 ( 2008 ) 252 . Melchiorri , C. : Automatic Control and System Theory : Analysis in the Phase Plane . Dipartimento di Ingegneria dell ' Energia Elettrica e dell ' Informazione ( DEI ) . Università di Bologna . http://www-lar.deis.unibo.it/people/cmelchiorri/Files_ACST/05a_Phase_Plane.pdf 253 . Myler , H.R. , and , Weeks , A.R. : The pocket handbook of image processing algorithms in C. PrenticeHall , New Jersey ( 1193 ) 254 . Image histogram . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_histogram 255 . Agu , E. : Digital Image Processing ( CS / ECE 545 ) . Lecture 2 : Histograms and Point Operations ( Part 1 ) . Computer Science Dept. Worcester Polytechnic Institute ( WPI ) http://web.cs.wpi.edu/~emmanuel/courses/cs545/S14/slides/lecture02.pdf 256 . Shih , M.Y. , and , Tseng , D.C. : A wavelet-based multiresolution edge detection and tracking . Image and Vision Computing , vol. 23 , no . 4 , pp. 441 – 451 ( 2005 ) 257 . Mastriani , M. : Rule of Three for Superresolution of Still Images with Applications to Compression and Denoising . ArXiv : 1405.0632 [ cs . CV ] . http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0632 ( 2014 ) 258 . Acharya , T. , and , Tsai , P - S. : JPEG2000 Standard for Image Compression : Concepts , Algorithms and VLSI Architectures , Ed . Wiley , N.Y. , 2005 . 259 . Mutual Information . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_information 260 . Delpiano , J. : Fast mutual information of two images or signals . Part I. 07 Dec 2006 ( Updated 23 Feb 2015 ) http://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/13289-fast-mutual-information-of-twoimages-or-signals 261 . Delpiano , J. : Fast mutual information of two images or signals . Part II . 07 Dec 2006 ( Updated 23 Feb 2015 ) https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/13289-fast-mutual-information-of-twoimages-or-signals/content/hist2.m 262 . QLogic ® QDR Infiniband . http://www.qlogic.com"	Information/Explanation
1508	What To Expect When You Enter Marriage Counselling There are many relationship counselling London professionals offering to provide marriage improvement consultation services . As a couple , when you enter into marriage counselling , you are agreeing to attempt to repair and rebuild a relationship that is experiencing difficulty . From each person , marriage counselling will require certain adjustments to previous attitudes and habits . The following are several things to expect when you enter into marriage counselling . An a neutral party , the marriage councillor needs to hear the thoughts , feelings and opinions of both parties in order to be able to make suggestions for ways to improve the marriage . In many cases the marriage relationship has declined primarily because of this lack of communication . Typically , councillor listen privately to each person , then bring them together again to discuss unresolved issues and set out goals and objectives for ways to improve the marriage . Hearing only one side of the story jeopardises the possibility of resolution being possible . If one or both persons are holding back communicating , it is a road block to moving ahead with a more positive future relationship . Honesty Is Critical For Progress If as a couple you have experienced the devastation of trust breakdown , marriage counselling my make it possible to repair that trust . However , if one or both people can not be honest about how they feel during the counselling sessions , it will only further enhance the distrust , and stop progress towards a healthy relationship . Willingness To Apply Suggested Changes Unless changes are made , the relationship will at best stay stagnant , or worse yet , end entirely . Change is needed to make things better , and most likely this will be from both persons within the relationship . Improvements to communication , trust , respect and many other areas are usually necessary – and can only be accomplished when both persons are willing to change a negative pattern of behaviour , and replace it with an improved more positive behaviour that will contribute to the overall well being of the relationship . It takes determination to continue working at a relationship even after it has experienced a setback , however , most couples what to work things out , and get back to the intimate , trusting bond they once treasured with their partner . If one or both partners feel that the situation within their relationship has progressed to the point where separation or divorce seems like it is the next step , it might be best to take one step back and try meeting with a marriage councillor to resolve and repair what is wrong within the relationship and make things right again . Many couples have been able to successfully apply the afore mentioned actions and see positive results within their marriage after meeting with a relationship counselling London professional . Making the commitment to improving your marriage by being honest with yourself and your partner , and applying recommended ways to make the marriage stronger will significantly improve the chances that you will be able to stay together , and grow together into a loving and supportive relationship .	Instruction
1271	The Japanese Birch also called the Asian white birch is regarded as one of the most pest resistant white-barked birches . The Japanese birch has shown great resistance to the white birch borer and to the leaf miner . The leaves and shape of the Japanese Birch is very close to the paper birch . The main visual difference between the paper birch and the Japanese birch is the white or paper birch has exfoliating bark and the Japanese does not . They both have the beautiful chalky white bark . The cultivar ' Whitespire Senior ' is micro-propagated from the original tree . The tree tolerates slightly alkaline soil conditions . Birch are found most commonly mixed with white cedar or arborvitae and hemlock in low lying areas in the upper Midwest . As with most Birch the Whitespire Birch loves wet ground and full sun . Given enough water and fertilizer a Japanese Birch can grow 2-4 ' per year . We have birch saplings and seedlings of white or paper , river and whitespire or Japanese white .	Information/Explanation
286	Our Careers As you 'd expect from an organisation of our size , we 've got any number of potential careers on offer . Whatever your personal area of expertise - and however much experience you can demonstrate - we 're virtually guaranteed to have a role that reflects it . Of course , we have endless opportunities for customer-facing staff such as Customer service assistants and train drivers . But that 's only the tip of the iceberg . As we continue enhancing the capital , we also employ lawyers , engineers , marketing professionals , IT experts , administrators and every other profession you can think of . We 're central to the life of one of the world's most exciting cities , and are keen to reflect that diversity in the makeup of our own staff . We select new recruits on merit irrespective of gender , age , marital status , ethnic origin , sexual orientation , disability or religion . As an employer , we 're also an accredited Investor in People , demonstrating a real commitment to training , development and career progression . Click here to see all Transport for London opportunities	Promotion
32	"John 1 The Word Became Flesh 1 In the beginning was the Word , and the Word was with God , and the Word was God . 2 He was with God in the beginning . 3 Through him all things were made ; without him nothing was made that has been made . 4 In him was life , and that life was the light of men . 5 The light shines in the darkness , but the darkness has not understood [ a ] it . 6 There came a man who was sent from God ; his name was John . 7 He came as a witness to testify concerning that light , so that through him all men might believe . 8 He himself was not the light ; he came only as a witness to the light . 9 The true light that gives light to every man was coming into the world . [ b ] 10 He was in the world , and though the world was made through him , the world did not recognize him . 11 He came to that which was his own , but his own did not receive him . 12 Yet to all who received him , to those who believed in his name , he gave the right to become children of God – 13 children born not of natural descent , [ c ] nor of human decision or a husband's will , but born of God . 14 The Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us . We have seen his glory , the glory of the One and Only , [ d ] who came from the Father , full of grace and truth . 15 John testifies concerning him . He cries out , saying , "" This was he of whom I said , ' He who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me . ' "" 16 From the fullness of his grace we have all received one blessing after another . 17 For the law was given through Moses ; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ . 18 No one has ever seen God , but God the One and Only , [ e ] [ f ] who is at the Father's side , has made him known . John the Baptist Denies Being the Christ 19 Now this was John's testimony when the Jews of Jerusalem sent priests and Levites to ask him who he was . 20 He did not fail to confess , but confessed freely , "" I am not the Christ . [ g ] "" 21 They asked him , "" Then who are you ? Are you Elijah ? "" He said , "" I am not . "" "" Are you the Prophet ? "" He answered , "" No. "" 22 Finally they said , "" Who are you ? Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us . What do you say about yourself ? "" 23 John replied in the words of Isaiah the prophet , "" I am the voice of one calling in the desert , ' Make straight the way for the Lord . ' "" [ h ] 24 Now some Pharisees who had been sent 25 questioned him , "" Why then do you baptize if you are not the Christ , nor Elijah , nor the Prophet ? "" 26 "" I baptize with [ i ] water , "" John replied , "" but among you stands one you do not know . 27 He is the one who comes after me , the thongs of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie . "" 28 This all happened at Bethany on the other side of the Jordan , where John was baptizing . Jesus the Lamb of God 29 The next day John saw Jesus coming toward him and said , "" Look , the Lamb of God , who takes away the sin of the world ! 30 This is the one I meant when I said , ' A man who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me . ' 31 I myself did not know him , but the reason I came baptizing with water was that he might be revealed to Israel . "" 32 Then John gave this testimony : "" I saw the Spirit come down from heaven as a dove and remain on him . 33 I would not have known him , except that the one who sent me to baptize with water told me , ' The man on whom you see the Spirit come down and remain is he who will baptize with the Holy Spirit . ' 34 I have seen and I testify that this is the Son of God . "" Jesus' First Disciples 35 The next day John was there again with two of his disciples . 36 When he saw Jesus passing by , he said , "" Look , the Lamb of God ! "" 37 When the two disciples heard him say this , they followed Jesus . 38 Turning around , Jesus saw them following and asked , "" What do you want ? "" They said , "" Rabbi "" ( which means Teacher ) , "" where are you staying ? "" 39 "" Come , "" he replied , "" and you will see . "" So they went and saw where he was staying , and spent that day with him . It was about the tenth hour . 40 Andrew , Simon Peter's brother , was one of the two who heard what John had said and who had followed Jesus . 41 The first thing Andrew did was to find his brother Simon and tell him , "" We have found the Messiah "" ( that is , the Christ ) . 42 And he brought him to Jesus . Jesus looked at him and said , "" You are Simon son of John . You will be called Cephas "" ( which , when translated , is Peter [ j ] ) . Jesus Calls Philip and Nathanael 43 The next day Jesus decided to leave for Galilee . Finding Philip , he said to him , "" Follow me . "" 44 Philip , like Andrew and Peter , was from the town of Bethsaida . 45 Philip found Nathanael and told him , "" We have found the one Moses wrote about in the Law , and about whom the prophets also wrote – Jesus of Nazareth , the son of Joseph . "" 46 "" Nazareth ! Can anything good come from there ? "" Nathanael asked . "" Come and see , "" said Philip . 47 When Jesus saw Nathanael approaching , he said of him , "" Here is a true Israelite , in whom there is nothing false . "" 48 "" How do you know me ? "" Nathanael asked . Jesus answered , "" I saw you while you were still under the fig tree before Philip called you . "" 49 Then Nathanael declared , "" Rabbi , you are the Son of God ; you are the King of Israel . "" 50 Jesus said , "" You believe [ k ] because I told you I saw you under the fig tree . You shall see greater things than that . "" 51 He then added , "" I tell you [ l ] the truth , you [ m ] shall see heaven open , and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man . "" John 2 Jesus Changes Water to Wine 1 On the third day a wedding took place at Cana in Galilee . Jesus' mother was there , 2 and Jesus and his disciples had also been invited to the wedding . 3 When the wine was gone , Jesus' mother said to him , "" They have no more wine . "" 4 "" Dear woman , why do you involve me ? "" Jesus replied . "" My time has not yet come . "" 5 His mother said to the servants , "" Do whatever he tells you . "" 6 Nearby stood six stone water jars , the kind used by the Jews for ceremonial washing , each holding from twenty to thirty gallons . [ a ] 7 Jesus said to the servants , "" Fill the jars with water "" ; so they filled them to the brim . 8 Then he told them , "" Now draw some out and take it to the master of the banquet . "" They did so , 9 and the master of the banquet tasted the water that had been turned into wine . He did not realize where it had come from , though the servants who had drawn the water knew . Then he called the bridegroom aside 10 and said , "" Everyone brings out the choice wine first and then the cheaper wine after the guests have had too much to drink ; but you have saved the best till now . "" 11 This , the first of his miraculous signs , Jesus performed at Cana in Galilee . He thus revealed his glory , and his disciples put their faith in him . Jesus Clears the Temple 12 After this he went down to Capernaum with his mother and brothers and his disciples . There they stayed for a few days . 13 When it was almost time for the Jewish Passover , Jesus went up to Jerusalem . 14 In the temple courts he found men selling cattle , sheep and doves , and others sitting at tables exchanging money . 15 So he made a whip out of cords , and drove all from the temple area , both sheep and cattle ; he scattered the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables . 16 To those who sold doves he said , "" Get these out of here ! How dare you turn my Father's house into a market ! "" 17 His disciples remembered that it is written : "" Zeal for your house will consume me . "" [ b ] 18 Then the Jews demanded of him , "" What miraculous sign can you show us to prove your authority to do all this ? "" 19 Jesus answered them , "" Destroy this temple , and I will raise it again in three days . "" 20 The Jews replied , "" It has taken forty-six years to build this temple , and you are going to raise it in three days ? "" 21 But the temple he had spoken of was his body . 22 After he was raised from the dead , his disciples recalled what he had said . Then they believed the Scripture and the words that Jesus had spoken . 23 Now while he was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast , many people saw the miraculous signs he was doing and believed in his name . [ c ] 24 But Jesus would not entrust himself to them , for he knew all men . 25 He did not need man's testimony about man , for he knew what was in a man ."	Prose/Lyrical
1656	"With customizable management features , it is used to create private websites with online courses for educators and trainers to achieve learning goals . Moodle ( acronym for modular object-oriented dynamic learning environment ) allows for extending and tailoring learning environments using community sourced plugins . Moodle was originally developed by Martin Dougiamas to help educators create online courses with a focus on interaction and collaborative construction of content , and it is in continual evolution . The first version of Moodle was released on 20 August 2002 . Nowadays the Moodle Project is led and coordinated by Moodle HQ , an Australian company of 30 developers which is financially supported by a network of eighty four Moodle Partner service companies worldwide . Moodle's development has also been assisted by the work of open-source programmers . Moodle as a learning platform can enhance existing learning environments . As an E-learning tool , Moodle has a wide range of standard and innovative features such as calendar and Gradebook . Moodle is a leading virtual learning environment and can be used in many types of environments such as education , training and development and in business settings . Plugins are a flexible tool set , allowing Moodle users to extend the features of the site . There are hundreds of plugins for Moodle , extending the features of Moodle's core functionality . Each plugin is maintained in the Moodle plugins directory . As of April 2015 , there are over 1,000 plugins available for Moodle with over 7 million downloads . Graphical themes for Moodle can be installed to change the look and functionality of a Moodle site or of an individual course . Moodle has been translated in over 100 languages , available for any site administrator to install . People in various countries maintain and contribute to the various language packs . Moodle has adopted the following e-learning standards : Sharable Content Object Reference Model ( SCORM ) is a collection of elearning standards and specifications that define communications between client side content and a server side learning management system , as well as how externally authored content should be packaged in order to integrate with the LMS effectively . There are two versions : SCORM 1.2 and SCORM 2004 . Moodle is SCORM 1.2 compliant , and passes all the tests in the ADL Conformance test suite 1.2.7 for SCORM 1.2 . SCORM 2004 is not supported in Moodle , however Rustici Software have a Moodle plugin which can turn any Moodle site into a fully compliant SCORM 2004 LMS . The AICC HACP standard for CMI was developed by the Aviation Industry Computer-Based Training Committee ( AICC ) and is used to call externally authored content and assessment packages . AICC content packages are supported in Moodle 2.1 and later versions . IMS Content Packages can also be imported into Moodle . In addition , Moodle Book activities can be exported as IMS Content Packages . Learning Tools Interoperability ( LTI ) is a standard way of integrating rich learning applications ( often remotely hosted and provided through third-party services ) with educational platforms . Moodle uses the External Tool activity to act as an ' LTI consumer ' as standard , and will act as an ' LTI provider ' using a plugin . Users can download and install Moodle on a Web server , such as Apache HTTP Server , and a number of database management systems , such as PostgreSQL , are supported . Pre-built combinations of Moodle with a Web server and database are available for Microsoft Windows and Macintosh . Other automated installation approaches exist , such as installing a Debian package , deploying a ready-to-use TurnKey Moodle appliance , using the Bitnami installer , or using a "" one-click install "" service such as Installatron . Certified Moodle Partners provide other Moodle services , including hosting , training , customization and content development . This network of providers support development of the Moodle project through royalties . Moodle runs without modification on Unix , Linux , FreeBSD , Windows , OS X , NetWare and any other systems that support PHP and a database , including webhost providers . Moodle also has import features for use with other specific systems , such as importing quizzes or entire courses from Blackboard or WebCT . As of February 2010 , Moodle will not import Blackboard courses , apparently due to changes in php code-releases . In March 2012 Blackboard acquired two companies based on Moodle's software including Baltimore-based Moodlerooms Inc. and NetSpot of Adelaide , Australia . In August 2015 , Blackboard acquired Colombia-based Nivel7 , possibly the largest Moodle services provider in Latin America . The Red Hat site , Opensource.com , reports that Moodle will always be an open source project , with clear delineation between Blackboard and Moodle . For many schools , colleges and universities , SIMS integration is key to ensure a seamless data flow from the Management Information System through to the Learning Platform and back again . Many Learning Platforms do not enable write-back functionality , however this is often a key requirement from schools needing to write data onto their MIS and back again . Martin Dougiamas , who has graduate degrees in computer science and education , wrote the first version of Moodle . Dougiamas started a Ph.D. to examine "" the use of open source software to support a social constructionist epistemology of teaching and learning within Internet-based communities of reflective inquiry . "" Although how exactly social constructionism makes Moodle different from other eLearning platforms is difficult to show , it has been cited as an important factor by Moodle adopters . Other Moodle adopters , such as the Open University in the UK , have pointed out that Learning Management Systems can equally be seen as "" relatively pedagogy-neutral "" . The stated philosophy of Moodle includes a constructivist and social constructionist approach to education , emphasizing that learners ( and not just teachers ) can contribute to the educational experience . Using these pedagogical principles , Moodle provides an environment for learning communities . The acronym Moodle stands for modular object-oriented dynamic learning environment . ( In the early years the "" m "" stood for "" Martin's "" , named after Martin Dougiamas , the original developer ) . As well as being an acronym , the name was chosen because of the dictionary definition of Moodle and to correspond to an available domain name . Moodle has continued to evolve since 1999 ( since 2001 with the current architecture ) . It has been translated into over 100 different languages and is accessible in many countries worldwide . Institutions can add as many Moodle servers as needed without having to pay license fees . The Open University of the UK currently uses a Moodle installation for their 200,000 users while the UK government uses a Moodle installation for their Civil Service Learning platform serving half a million employees . Grading improvements , auto-login , sign-up improvements and SSO , new notification preferences A MoodleMoot is a conference for Moodle community members , held to learn about Moodle , share experiences of the learning platform , discuss research in related educational technologies and contribute ideas to future Moodle development . Held around the world , MoodleMoots are organised by universities or other large organisations using Moodle , Moodle Partners , Moodle associations or Moodle HQ . In the higher education market in the United States as of fall 2013 , Moodle is the second largest provider with 23 % market share , following Blackboard ( 41 % ) , with Desire2Learn ( 11 % ) and Instructure as number three and four providers ."	Information/Explanation
158	"I 'm Jessi , and this is my suitcase . But before I show you what I 've got inside , I 'm going to make a very public confession , and that is , I 'm outfit obsessed . I love finding , wearing , and more recently , photographing and blogging a different colorful , crazy outfit for every single occasion . But I do n't buy anything new . I get all my clothes secondhand from flee markets and thrift stores . Aww , thank you . Secondhand shopping allows me to reduce the impact my wardrobe has on the environment and on my wallet . I get to meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually go to a good cause ; I look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping like my own personal treasure hunt . I mean , what am I going to find today ? Is it going to be my size ? Will I like the color ? Will it be under $ 20 ? If all the answers are yes , I feel as though I 've won . I want to get back to my suitcase and tell you what I packed for this exciting week here at TED . I mean , what does somebody with all these outfits bring with her ? So I 'm going to show you exactly what I brought . I brought seven pairs of underpants and that 's it . Exactly one week's worth of undies is all I put in my suitcase . I was betting that I 'd be able to find everything else I could possible want to wear once I got here to Palm Springs . And since you do n't know me as the woman walking around TED in her underwear -- ( Laughter ) that means I found a few things . And I 'd really love to show you my week's worth of outfits right now . Does that sound good ? ( Applause ) So as I do this , I 'm also going to tell you a few of the life lessons that , believe it or not , I have picked up in these adventures wearing nothing new . So let's start with Sunday . I call this shiny tiger . You do not have to spend a lot of money to look great . You can almost always look phenomenal for under $ 50 . This whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive thing that I wore the entire week . Monday : Color is powerful . It is almost physiologically impossible to be in a bad mood when you 're wearing bright red pants . ( Laughter ) If you are happy , you are going to attract other happy people to you . Tuesday : Fitting in is way overrated . I 've spent a whole lot of my life trying to be myself and at the same time fit in . Just be who you are . If you are surrounding yourself with the right people , they will not only get it , they will appreciate it . Wednesday : Embrace your inner child . Sometimes people tell me that I look like I 'm playing dress-up , or that I remind them of their seven year-old . I like to smile and say , "" Thank you . "" Thursday : Confidence is key . If you think you look good in something , you almost certainly do . And if you do n't think you look good in something , you 're also probably right . I grew up with a mom who taught me this day-in and day-out . But it was n ' t until I turned 30 that I really got what this meant . And I 'm going to break it down for you for just a second . If you believe you 're a beautiful person inside and out , there is no look that you ca n ' t pull off . So there is no excuse for any of us here in this audience . We should be able to rock anything we want to rock . Thank you . ( Applause ) Friday : A universal truth -- five words for you : Gold sequins go with everything . And finally , Saturday : Developing your own unique personal style is a really great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word . It 's been proven to me time and time again as people have walked up to me this week simply because of what I 'm wearing . And we 've had great conversations . So obviously this is not all going to fit back in my tiny suitcase . So before I go home to Brooklyn , I 'm going to donate everything back . Because the lesson I 'm trying to learn myself this week is that it 's okay to let go . I do n't need to get emotionally attached to these things , because around the corner , there is always going to be another crazy , colorful , shiny outfit just waiting for me , if I put a little love in my heart and look . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) Thank you . ( Applause ) </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
1090	"Automated Application Offloading through Ant-inspired Decision-Making Roya Golchay ∗ , Frédéric Le Mouël † , Julien Ponge ‡ and Nicolas Stouls § arXiv : 1611 . 02275v1 [ cs . DC ] 7 Nov 2016 Univ Lyon , INSA Lyon , CITI , F-69621 Villeurbanne , France Email : ∗ roya.golchay@insa-lyon.fr , † frederic.le-mouel@insa-lyon.fr , ‡ julien.ponge@insa-lyon.fr , § nicolas.stouls@insa-lyon.fr Abstract – The explosive trend of smartphone usage as the most effective and convenient communication tools of human life in recent years make developers build ever more complex smartphone applications . Gaming , navigation , video editing , augmented reality , and speech recognition applications require considerable computational power and energy . Although smartphones have a wide range of capabilities - GPS , WiFi , cameras - their inherent limitations - frequent disconnections , mobility and significant constraints - size , lower weights , longer battery life - make difficult to exploiting their full potential to run complex applications . Several research works have proposed solutions in application offloading domain , but few ones concerning the highly changing properties of the environment . To address these issues , we realize an automated application offloading middleware , ACOMMA , with dynamic and re-adaptable decision-making engine . The decision engine of ACOMMA is based on an antinspired algorithm . I. I NTRODUCTION The explosive trend of smartphone usage as the most effective and convenient communication tools of human life in recent years - with the 50 percent growth rate in 2013 [ 1 ] - make developers to build ever more complex smartphone applications such as gaming , navigation , video editing , augmented reality , and speech recognition , which require considerable computational power and energy . However smartphones have a wide range of capabilities , typically including GPS , WiFi , cameras , gigabytes of storage , and gigahertz-speed processors , the importance and desirability of smaller sizes , lower weights and longer battery life as well as their inherent limitations such as resource scarcity , frequent disconnections and mobility , make them difficult to exploiting their full potential to run these complex applications and have the best performance . It seems to keep pace with increasing performance requirements , mobile users have to continually upgrade their hardware to augment the computational power as applications become more complex but still experience some limitations specially short battery lifetime . More feasible approach is empowering mobile devices using software solutions-application offloading , that improves the performance and the energy consumption of resource-poor mobile devices by using the power of one or more resource-rich stations . A key area of application offloading is to apply a remote execution of an application - totally or partially - to resource-intensive devices to improve performance and energy consumption . The surrogate can be a powerful stationary device or a set of processors . Drastic evolution of wireless technologies that make network connectivity ubiquitous and successful practices of Cloud Computing for stationary machines are motivating factors to bring the cloud to the vicinity of a mobile from an offloading perspective . As a result , Mobile Cloud Computing was introduced to enable rich mobile computing by extending the on-demand computing vision of Cloud Computing and enrich smartphones and address their issues of computational power and battery lifetime by executing complete mobile applications or identified resource intensive components of a partitioned mobile application on the cloud-based surrogates [ 2 ] . Several research works have proposed solutions [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] but proposed partitioning mechanisms are not appropriate to highly changing environments . To address these issues , we propose ACOMMA , an Antinspired Collaborative Application Offloading Middleware for Mobile Applications . ACOMMA is an automated application offloading middleware with dynamic and re-adaptable decision-making engine based on an ant-inspired algorithm . To take more flexible offloading decisions , ACOMMA performs fine-graineded method-level application partitioning . Our proposed middleware , by dint of its service-based architecture , could be used by devices that support web services without any special requirements . This middleware is also equipped with a learning-based decision-making process to avoid running a complete decision-making process in duplicate situations . To eliminate the role of developer for special development of mobile application or its annotating for application partitioning , we propose an application transformer to modify the application into an adaptable form with this offloading middleware . The underlying motivation for ACOMMA lies in the following intuition : however Mobile Cloud Computing is very beneficial , there are still some challenges arise from mobile devices , clouds and their interactions . Meanwhile addressing communication and application development complexity challenges , ACOMMA focuses on offloading performance . It applies an ant-inspired algorithm to perform fine-grained and method-level application offloading considering two performance criteria at the same time . In short , our main contributions consist in : • designing and developing an open and service-oriented architecture that makes ACOMMA adaptable to devices that support web services without special API requirements , making ACOMMA flexible with any Android mobile application due to its application transformer , • designing an automated offloading middleware that dynamically makes efficient offloading decisions considering the changing environment by using bi-objective algorithm , • adding a learning feature in the decision-making process to avoid re-execution of decision-making algorithms when offloading decisions have already been taken in similar situations . In what follows , we first explain in Section II how a mobile application is automatically modified by our application transformer to be able to be offloaded by ACOMMA . Then we present the design of the architecture of ACOMMA in Section III and its decision-making engine that decides of the offloading based on an ant-inspired algorithm in Section IV . We describe our implementation and experimental evaluations of the prototype in Section V. We survey related work in Section VI , and finally conclude and discuss limitations in Section VII . • II . A PPLICATION T RANSFORMATION Regardless of the current situation in the mobile applications , there may exist some components that must be executed locally because of their inherent dependencies to the mobile device . In almost all existing offloading middlewares , even in the ones that take online offloading decisions , the developer is responsible in detecting and annotating these components . Its is clear that the quality of offloading is highly dependent on knowledge , expertises , and experience of the developers who annotate applications . Any small issue in annotating may cause big changes in the offloading process . To eliminate any need for manual annotation and modification , we propose an application transformer that detects offloadable parts of the application by applying some rules . To be adaptable with a client-server architecture and supporting REST / HTTP communication in its service-oriented model , this application transformer also has the responsibility of code modification . The application methods which are offloadable parts in our method-level application offloading , should be modified in a form where methods act as services and are accessible via REST . Servicizing is what we call this changing process . The transformer picks the application as the input and creates the modified application in output . Furthermore , to be located on the server , a version of the application is provided that adds the accountability to services for any method . Depending on the circumstances , this transformer can be run directly on the mobile device or on any other machine , and the modified application in output is transferred to the mobile device for executing . Figure 1 illustrates the flow of a mobile application execution with the transformer . The application transformer gets the source code and generates a new version of it with offloadable servicized method calls . This new source code is transformed to bytecode by the compiler and the virtual machine interprets Fig. 1 . Mobile application execution flow with servicization modifications the stream of bytecode as a sequence of instructions and then executes it to produce desired output . To supports applications without open source codes , we add an agent to the execution flow that transforms the bytecode into a sevicized bytecode before the interpreting by the virtual machine . Although the ability to change the bytecode makes the approach more general and dynamic , it complicates the modification process and reduces the efficiency because the agent must be present on the mobile device . The availability of the source code , however , allows the application transformation process to be done on a system other than the mobile device and the bytecode of the modified application to be installed on the mobile device . Having the development chain before the mobile device increases the efficiency and performance , but decreases the dynamism while the system is no longer able to exert next changes during the execution . III . T HE ARCHITECTURE OF ACOMMA ACOMMA has an open and service-oriented architecture with an offloading service , a context monitoring service and a profiling service as building blocks . This open architecture with REST as the communication API makes ACOMMA generic and usable for the devices that support web services . The offloading service is responsible for partitioning a mobile application in a dynamic way and performs offloading . The context monitoring and profiling services collect the required data for the offloading service . They provide environmental information such as application type , cloud information and communication conditions as well as user information such as his requirements , preferences , and limitations . As shown in Figure 2 , the offloading service gets a mobile application as an input , employs the collected data of context monitoring and profiling services , determines offloading by the help of its decision-making algorithm in decision engine , especially which parts of the application lead to higher performance , and finally performs offloading . We consider a mobile application modelled as a graph where vertices and edges represent methods and their dependencies in term of method calls respectively . In such a call graph , the graph partitions represent the executing environments of partition members . Fig. 3 . Modifying call graph to be compatible to Shortest Path problem Fig. 2 . An architectural view of offloading building blocks in ACOMMA The decision engine is in charge of partitioning the call graph in an efficient way to determine offloadable parts of the application . Unlike existing offloading middlewares that use linear programming to cut a graph based on a single objective , we are interested in taking into account two criteria at the same time for graph partitioning . This bi-criteria decisionmaking process helps ACOMMA to perform more dynamic and flexible offloading concerning the highly changing environment . To take such a decision , as the constraints in dynamic environments can never be guaranteed to an optimal solution , we need to apply heuristic approaches like genetic algorithms , fuzzy logics or bio-inspired algorithms . Because of their collaborative decision-making process , self-organization , autonomy , and vigor for solving optimization problems , we use bio-inspired algorithms and especially an ant-inspired algorithm that is robust , self-organized and flexible . there are two attributed weights for each edge . We consider CPU usage and execution time as constraints of the decisionmaking and aim to find an offloading solution to minimize both of them . For the same mobile device and cloud , any change in the network conditions directly affects the execution time , for example , more network load leads to an increase in the execution time . There is also a direct relationship between the CPU usage and the battery consumption , the more an application uses CPU power , the more it consumes battery . Although it seems that the applied criteria are just the execution time and CPU usage , the network communication conditions and the amount of battery consumption also influence the offloading decision-making process . IV . DYNAMIC D ECISION - M AKING A. Shortest Path Problem Ant-inspired algorithms are used to solve different problem types , but they are more adapted to Shortest Path Problems . We propose the partitioning problem investigated as a Shortest Path Problem where the application call graph is modified in a way that its nodes belong to local and remote executing environments . In the graph modification process , as shown in Figure 3 , all graph nodes are duplicated instead of having only one single node and consequently their coupling vertices . As the nodes represent the methods , the original nodes show methods on the mobile device and the duplicated ones refer to the corresponding methods on the cloud . In the transformed graph , choosing Path1 shows the local execution of method2 , where Path2 represents its remote execution in the cloud . The goal of Shortest Path Problems is finding a path between two nodes in a weighted graph such that the sum of the weights of its constituent edges is minimized . As we want to take bi-criteria offloading decisions , Fig. 4 . Solution set for Shortest Path Problem : ( 4 , 5 ) , ( 6 , 4 ) Unlike single-objective optimization problems resulting in a scaler optimal solution , solving bi-objective optimization problems concentrate in finding a tradeoff between two objectives and resulting in a set of solutions called non-dominated solutions . For example , in Figure 4 , there exist four paths between the start and the end points : ' start-A-D-end ' , ' startA-C-end ' , ' start-A-C-E-end ' and ' start-B-E-end ' with their respective related objective functions of ( 5 , 5 ) , ( 4 , 5 ) , ( 6 , 6 ) and ( 6 , 4 ) . In this graph , the objective functions ( 5 , 5 ) and ( 6 , 6 ) are dominated by ( 4 , 5 ) , however between ( 4 , 5 ) and ( 6 , 4 ) the best path can not be chosen because none is dominated by the other . As a result , the non-dominated paths are ' start-A-C-end ' and ' start-B-E-end ' with ( 4 , 5 ) , ( 6 , 4 ) as objective functions . Based on our knowledge , this is the first time that an application partitioning problem in offloading decision-making process is considered as a Shortest Path Problem . In the following , we explain how ACOMMA utilizes Ant Colony Optimization algorithm to solve the Shortest Path Problem . B. Decision-making using Ant Colony Optimization In nature , an ant starts looking for food in a random manner . After having found the food , they make more or less directly to the nest , depositing an odorous called pheromone . Thanks to this trace , other ants can come to find food . Over time , the pheromone trail starts to evaporate . The more time it takes for an ant to travel down the path and back again , the more time the pheromones have to evaporate . A short path , by comparison , gets marched over more frequently , and thus the pheromone density becomes higher on shorter paths than longer ones . We apply [ 5 ] as Ant Colony Optimization algorithm ( ACO ) in which two pheromone matrices are intended for two objectives . These pheromone matrices are updated at the end of each iteration separately based on the generated results . In addition , when an ant moves from one node to another , the pheromone trail is locally updated according to the evaporation rate . An artificial ant moves from one node to the next one based on a series of transition rules and with the help of two heuristic parameters . When an application starts , as an initialization phase , ACOMMA creates application's service graph in an aforementioned form where both costs of CPU usage and execution time of each method are set to zero . For the first method call , when the algorithm executes for the first time , the non-dominated set consists of all possible paths . ACOMMA randomly selects one of these solutions and execute the application . Then , weights of all edges of selected path are updated with real values of each method execution costs . So , during the next algorithm execution , this selected path as well as the paths within common edges wo n't be in the non-dominated set . After several executions , all graph vertices will have real weights progressively , and Ant Colony Optimization algorithm by applying local and global updates of pheromone trail , gives different non-dominated paths . To prevent the algorithm execution for duplicate situations , we establish a learning-based decision-making process that uses the previous decisions made using the Ant Colony Optimization algorithm for the same application and the same situation . ACOMMA saves the history of each application run as a string of executed methods and their execution platform in a cache and applies a simple string matching algorithm , to find the appropriate execution string in this history . The next section shows the evaluations of the decision-making process of ACOMMA . V. I MPLEMENTATION AND E VALUATIONS A. Benchmark applications and Experimental platforms To evaluate the performance of ACOMMA , we start with four micro-benchmarks and extend our tests with two macro - benchmarks that are representative of popular applications . As micro-benchmarks , we develop some mathematical functions of Fibonacci , Matrix multiplication , Matrix determinant , and Integrate . Although these functions are short and simple , they are different enough to allow us to do a variety of tests at the first step . Fibonacci and Matrix multiplications are both composed of a few number of methods but with different mathematical complexities . Fibonacci repeats a basic mathematical operation many times where matrix multiplications do some more complicated calculations . Determinant and Integrate have some number of methods that could be offloaded where the determinant works recursively . Varying the inputs of each of these functions leads to interesting results . Our macro-benchmarks are Monte Carlo and Face recognition algorithms . Monte Carlo algorithm is a randomized algorithm whose running time is deterministic , but whose output may be incorrect with a certain ( typically small ) probability . This algorithm could be used for the choice of the next move in a chess game . The Face recognition algorithm tries to match a given face image to a set of given face images using a number of eigenfaces [ 6 ] and is representative of image processing applications . We use a MacBook Pro with 8 GB of memory and a 2,53 GHz Intel processor dual-core as our remote server . This server has OS X 10.9.5 Mavericks as operating system . We use two different mobile clients to evaluate the decision-making process . The first one is a Samsung Galaxy SII with 1,2 GHz dual-core processor and 2GB of memory running Android version 4.1.2 ( Jelly Bean ) . The second is an Asus Google Nexus 7 Tablette with quad-core 1.2 GHz processor and 1GB of memory running Android version 5.1.1 ( Lollipop ) . To successfully validate ACOMMA , we need to show that ACOMMA is able to make a correct and efficient offloading decision to improve application performance by selecting an appropriate execution path on the application service graph using the Ant Colony Optimization algorithm . It may also ameliorate its performance while making offloading decisions benefiting from its string matching algorithm . B. Results To evaluate the decision-making process of ACOMMA , we run several tests on each benchmarks and we compare the total execution time and CPU usage of an application execution when it executes locally on mobile devices with its execution when offloaded by ACOMMA . To be able to compare the offloading gain in different execution complexities , we run each application 25 times for each and with different inputs ( Series 1-4 : Fibonnaci 500 to 1500 , Multiplication 50x50 to 80x80 , Determinant 2 o 5 , Integrate 1.0 to 3.0 , Recognition 100000x1 to x4 , Monte Carlo 10-5 to 40-11 ) . Since the execution time and CPU usage of application methods are decision-making criteria that Ant Colony Optimization uses for graph weights while cutting it , we show the gain regarding these parameters while offloading . As expected for solutions of the bi-objective optimization problem , the results show a similar form of gain for both execution time and Galaxy S2 Nexus 7 Tablette Serie Serie Serie Serie Serie Serie Serie Serie 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 Success ( % ) 60 64 52 56 76 52 80 56 Fibonacci Time ( % ) 40.54 29.7 27.25 31.08 13.34 18.98 24.38 13.23 CPU ( % ) 20 18.75 15.38 7.14 10.53 23.08 53.67 13.69 Multiplication Success Time CPU ( % ) ( % ) ( % ) 48 7.6 -16.66 60 11.93 0 52 13.06 0 52 8.37 15.38 48 9.74 -8.33 44 7.03 0 56 4.30 -7.14 48 3.72 8.33 Determinant Success Time ( % ) ( % ) 72 31.43 100 66.20 100 92.82 100 98.23 88 32.88 96 83.78 96 96.23 100 98.86 TABLE I S UMMARY OF INDIVIDUAL DECISION - MAKING USING ACO Galaxy S2 Nexus 7 Tablette Serie Serie Serie Serie Serie Serie Serie Serie 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 Face Recognition Success Time CPU ( % ) ( % ) ( % ) 100 83.92 81.43 100 87.89 60.47 100 88.52 75.23 100 89.98 77.89 96 83.74 89.68 92 82.09 91.71 100 80.77 84.82 96 78.40 75.42 CPU ( % ) 66.67 93.73 97.36 99.54 30.30 82.97 98.53 99.30 Success ( % ) 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 Integrate Time ( % ) 93.97 96.99 97.78 98.59 96.84 98.39 98.85 99.15 CPU ( % ) 86.55 99.49 99.55 99.81 98.44 98.65 99.18 99.55 ON MICRO BENCHMARKS MonteCarlo Success Time ( % ) ( % ) 96 81.66 100 83.72 96 94.68 96 96.05 96 95.28 100 94.39 96 98.64 96 99.01 CPU ( % ) 99.74 97.74 99.92 99.88 96.73 97.36 99.15 99.34 TABLE II S UMMARY OF INDIVIDUAL DECISION - MAKING USING ACO ON MACRO - BENCHMARKS CPU usage . However , Fibonacci and Matrix multiplications gain in terms of execution time and CPU usage while offloaded by ACOMMA , the gain of Determinant and Integrate is much higher . Fibonacci and matrix multiplication use simple calculations that do not consume considerable resources . In addition , their consumption growth rate is very small . So offloading is less efficient for them compared with more consuming applications and even in some runs , offloading execution takes more time than local execution . Contrariwise , Integrate and Matrix determinant are consuming benchmarks with a significant consumption growth rate as input changing . Using ACOMMA the most consuming parts of the application execute on the server and while the execution time of these parts with different inputs on the server is almost the same , the total execution time using offloading is in the same range while the local execution time grows exponentially with more consuming inputs . In fact , the more the application is resource consuming , the more we gain using offloading . Summary Tables I and II show the success rate , time gain and CPU gain of ACO while applying on different applications running on different devices for micro-benchmarks and macrobenchmarks respectively . The successful runs are the runs with their offloading execution time less than their local execution time , in other words , a run is successful if it gains in terms of execution time while offloading . The average success rate of Fibonacci and Matrix multiplication is 62 % and 59.5 % respectively while they augment to 94 % and 96 % for Determinant and Integrate . For Fibonacci and Matrix multiplication , the gain in CPU and time is at 99 % . Coming to macro-benchmarks , the results show that the gain for Face recognition and Monte Carlo is less than for Integrate and Determinant , but remains really significant with an average success ratio of 98 % and 97 % but with a gain in time and CPU less important of 78 to 89 % . These applications are all consuming but Face recognition and Monte Carlo have a larger service graph that needs more time to find non-dominated solutions . It seems that the efficiency of ACOMMA , depends on the graph complexity as well as the resource consumption of its nodes . Although the overhead of Ant Colony Optimization algorithm of 10 % in terms of execution time is quite low compared to its gain , we apply a simple string matching algorithm to verify if passing through the paths that are already determined by Ant Colony Optimization algorithm in previous runs is beneficial and can lower this overhead . To this end , the already passed paths are saved in a cache . In the next runs , ACOMMA searches for matches in the cache firstly , and if not found , it runs Ant Colony Optimization algorithm . We have tested string matching without cache invalidation and with it . We applied periodically cache invalidation based on predefined run numbers . The results show that by using string matching , the total execution time is only slightly improved by 2.3 % , but the overall decision-making overhead is reduced to 5 to 7 % . There is also no big differences between string matching improvements with and without cache invalidation . They may happen for more complex applications with larger service graphs that imply a larger cache in terms of both path size and number of paths . The results also show that for Face recognition and Monte Carlo algorithms , string matching works better than Integrate and Matrix determinant . We could conclude that string matching is more adapted for the applications with more methods and more complicated service graphs so that Ant Colony Optimization algorithm needs more time to evaluate a suitable path in it . In such complex applications , cache invalidation may also be more useful than for simple applications . VI . R ELATED W ORK The idea of offloading is not a new concept [ 7 ] , [ 8 ] , but it recently attracted much attention as a technique to overcome smartphone battery issues by partitioning and executing mobile applications on cloud-based surrogates . A significant amount of research has been performed to propose solutions to bring the cloud to the vicinity of a smartphone [ 9 ] , [ 10 ] , [ 11 ] , [ 12 ] . In this section , we present a brief history of existing approaches with a focus on their structural aspects of offloading and decisions making mechanisms . In general , the offloading middleware makes either coarse-grain offloading as VM migration or fine-grained offloading concerning methods , jobs , classes , bundles , etc. In both cases , they apply a singleobjective decision-making process to decide what to offload , either statical at development or dynamical at runtime . Such a decision-making mechanism for single criteria leads to an optimal solution while our proposed bi-objective heuristic approach results in a trade-off between two criteria . One of the most prominent works in this domain is MAUI [ 3 ] . MAUI is an energy-aware offloading framework that uses developer code annotations to determine online which methods from a class must be offloaded if the bandwidth of the network and the data transfer conditions are ideal . However , MAUI does not address issues of adapting the mobile application for different devices and does not make advantage of the scalability feature of the cloud . ThinkAir [ 4 ] is similar to MAUI in that it provides method-level , semiautomatic offloading of code . However , ThinkAir focuses more on scalability issues and parallel execution of the offloaded tasks . It targets a commercial cloud scenario with multiple mobile users instead of computation offloading of a single user . Moreover , ThinkAir provides an efficient way to perform on-demand resource allocation and exploits parallelism by dynamically creating , resuming , and destroying VMs in the cloud when needed . However , since the development of mobile application uses annotations , the developer must follow a brute-force approach to adapt his / her application to a particular device . Unlike MAUI and ThinkAir , in our work , an automated process defines remotable methods to eliminate developer burden in the development phase for method annotations . Also , fine-grained method-level application partitioning in ACOMMA makes lighter offloading compared with VM migration in these two middlewares . CloneCloud [ 13 ] is another middleware that profits from fine-grained application offloading , however its static analysis prevents from taking offloading decisions concerning the current situation . To ensure that mobile operations could be processed locally or remotely at bytecode level , CloneCloud also proposes the encapsulation of the mobile application as a stack into a virtual machine running in the cloud . Odessa [ 14 ] takes dynamic offloading decisions based on an optimal solution during application partitioning . Unlike most of the middlewares that used linear programming to find such an optimal solutions , Odessa employs a greedy algorithm to this end . VII . C ONCLUSION In this work , we focus on the mobile application augmentation by offloading to remote resources in the context of Mobile Cloud Computing . We introduce ACOMMA , an Ant-inspired Collaborative Offloading Middleware for Mobile Applications - a fine-grained method-level application offloading . Offloading decisions use a bi-Objective Ant Colony Optimization algorithm with execution time and CPU usage as criteria . To avoid running Ant Colony Optimization algorithm for any application offloading requests , we propose a learning-based decision-making model that searches an already taken decision in similar situations in previous execution trails and applies it to the current offloading process . ACOMMA works greatly to offload the applications that are more complex and resourceconsuming . The more the application is consuming the more performance is augmented . This gain is high enough - 95 to 97 % of success with 75 to 99 % of gain - to consider the 5-7 % overhead of ACOMMA as acceptable . R EFERENCES [ 1 ] Cisco , "" Cisco Visual Networking Index : Global Mobile Data Traffic Forecast Update , "" http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/collateral/service-provider/visual-networking-ind 2014 . [ 2 ] N. Fernando , S. W. Loke , and W. Rahayu , "" Mobile cloud computing : A survey , "" Future Generation Computer Systems , vol. 29 , no . 1 , pp. 84 – 106 , 2013 . [ 3 ] E. Cuervo , A. Balasubramanian , D. - k . Cho , A. Wolman , S. Saroiu , R. Chandra , and P. Bahl , "" MAUI : Making smartphones last longer with code offload , "" in Proc . of MobiSys ' 10 , 2010 , pp. 49 – 62 . [ 4 ] S. Kosta , A. Aucinas , P. Hui , R. Mortier , and X. Zhang , "" Thinkair : Dynamic resource allocation and parallel execution in the cloud for mobile code offloading , "" in Proc . of IEEE INFOCOM ' 12 , March 2012 , pp. 945 – 953 . [ 5 ] K. Ghoseiri and B. Nadjari , "" An ant colony optimization algorithm for the bi-objective shortest path problem , "" Appl . Soft Comput . , vol. 10 , no . 4 , pp. 1237 – 1246 , Sep . 2010 . [ 6 ] "" Face recognition algorithm . "" [ Online ] . Available : https://code.google.com/p/javafaces/. [ 7 ] R. K. Balan , M. Satyanarayanan , S. Y. Park , and T. Okoshi , "" Tacticsbased remote execution for mobile computing , "" in Proc . of MobiSys ' 03 , 2003 , pp. 273 – 286 . [ 8 ] R. Balan , J. Flinn , M. Satyanarayanan , S. Sinnamohideen , and H. - I. Yang , "" The case for cyber foraging , "" in Proc . of ACM SIGOPS EW ' 10 , 2002 , pp. 87 – 92 . [ 9 ] I. Giurgiu , O. Riva , D. Juric , I. Krivulev , and G. Alonso , "" Calling the cloud : Enabling mobile phones as interfaces to cloud applications , "" in Proc . of Middleware ' 09 , 2009 , vol. 5896 , pp. 83 – 102 . [ 10 ] M. S. Gordon , D. Anoushe , J. Scott , M. Z. Morley , and M. X. Chen , "" Comet : Code offload by migrating execution transparently , "" in Proc . of OSDI ' 12 , 2012 , pp. 93 – 106 . [ 11 ] R. Newton , S. Toledo , L. Girod , H. Balakrishnan , and S. Madden , "" Wishbone : Profile-based partitioning for sensornet applications , "" in Proc . of NSDI ' 09 , 2009 , pp. 395 – 408 . [ 12 ] B. Gao , L. He , L. Liu , K. Li , and S. Jarvis , "" From mobiles to clouds : Developing energy-aware offloading strategies for workflows , "" in Proc . of GRID ' 12 , Sept 2012 , pp. 139 – 146 . [ 13 ] B. - G. Chun , S. Ihm , P. Maniatis , M. Naik , and A. Patti , "" CloneCloud : Elastic execution between mobile device and cloud , "" in Proc . of EuroSys ' 11 , 2011 , pp. 301 – 314 . [ 14 ] M. - R. Ra , A. Sheth , L. Mummert , P. Pillai , D. Wetherall , and R. Govindan , "" Odessa : Enabling interactive perception applications on mobile devices , "" in Proc . of MobiSys ' 11 , 2011 , pp. 43 – 56 ."	Information/Explanation
1406	"EDIRs would be recognized , IRS-reviewed bodies that evaluate whether a non - U.S. organization is equivalent to a U.S. public charity – a process known as equivalency determination , or ED . NGOsource and other EDIRs are intended to help U.S. grantmakers streamline their international giving . They would help ensure that charitable grants abroad are used exclusively for exempt purposes . The Letters of Support demonstrate the consistent and ongoing desire of the grantmaking community to see EDIRs like NGOsource proceed to the next step in the IRS process : for EDIRs to be included in the 2012-2013 Priority Guidance Plan , which is used to identify and prioritize tax issues that should be addressed each year . "" The Grants Managers Network , in an April 25 letter to [ the ] IRS , said it wants the Service to keep amendments to Revenue Procedure 92-94 on the priority guidance plan for 2012 , and address amendments as soon as possible . "" ' Our members are the people directly responsible for handling these processes and paperwork at U.S. grantmaking organizations and can confirm the difficulty in obtaining the information about foreign charities in order to make good funding decisions , ' said Michelle Greanias , Grants Managers Network executive director . ' Communicating the equivalency determination requirements across language and culture is a major hurdle , ' she said . ' Even more difficult is explaining why the materials used for one grantmaker ca n't be used for all grantmakers . ' "" The Daily Report article included statements from several Letters of Support , such as : "" ' The real promise for international grantmaking comes from the ability to standardize what is currently done erratically – or not at all – by funders , ' Pamela Foster of the Rockefeller Foundation said in her April 26 letter to IRS . "" and "" According to Elizabeth Peters , general counsel of The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation , the delay in funding that results from having to complete equivalency determinations ' in turn delays important programs that serve the world's poorest citizens . ' "" Both the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury continue to review the EDIR concept and how repositories such as NGOsource may help improve compliance . The outlook for approval remains positive . Meet the TechSoup Global family"	News
280	Carcinoid tumours can occur in the colon , but are usually in the right colon / appendix , and are asociated with flushing , diarrhoea , wheeze and telangectasia . Carcinoid syndrome rarely occurs in the absence of liver metastases . Carcinoid is associated with chylous ascites . Carcinoid metastasising to bone marrow is rarely described . Lymphoma can involve the GI tract , liver , and , bone marrow , but the histology does not support this diagnosis . Myelofibrosis ( MF ) is associated with hepatosplenomegaly and portal hypertension . Portal colopathy is decribed . Colonic mucosal abnormalities are not associated with MF , although impaired immunity could predispose to infective colitis . Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a group of idiopathic granulomatous disorders characterized by the proliferation of specialized bone marrow-derived Langerhans cells and mature eosinophils . In addition to lytic bone lesions which can be painful , multiorgan involvement can affect skin , lymph nodes , spleen and liver . Diffuse colonic involvement is described in children .	Information/Explanation
79	"The Maghreb's Modern Islamists Moha Ennaji 2012-02-16 FEZ – Just over a year ago , the Arab Spring sparked dramatic change throughout the Arab world . Popular movements have brought a range of avowedly Islamist political parties to power , replacing the largely secular former regimes . What that will mean for these countries , and for the region , is one of today's central geopolitical questions . In North Africa , two Islamist parties have come fully to power via democratic elections : al-Nahda ( Renaissance ) in Tunisia , where the Arab Spring began , and the Justice and Development Party ( PJD ) in Morocco , both of which now lead new coalition governments . Whereas a popular revolution produced regime change in Tunisia , Morocco underwent a peaceful transformation that left the monarchy in place . Last July , Moroccans voted overwhelmingly to approve a new constitution that shifts executive power from the king to the prime minister , who will now be fully responsible for the cabinet , the civil service , and the implementation of government policies . The king retains some prerogatives , such as the authority to select the prime minister ( from the parliament's majority party ) and the head of the army . Furthermore , like heads of state in other parliamentary systems , he has the right to appoint the government ministers and ambassadors , dissolve the parliament , and dismiss the cabinet . While the PJD's success was based on institution-building within a constitutional monarchy , al-Nahda has revolutionized the Tunisian system . But both parties won after running on a moderate platform of constitutionalism , separation of powers , civil liberties , and women's rights . This new political reality in the Maghreb will bring Europe – particularly France , the region's old colonial master – face-to-face with Islamist governments determined to promote a new type of relationship . But these governments have much work to do at home first . Currently , the Maghreb countries suffer from soaring unemployment , poverty , and high prices for basic commodities . In response , both al-Nahda and the PJD are emphasizing job creation , free trade , foreign investment , and a crackdown on the corruption that has plagued their countries' economies . These governments' first major test of economic stewardship will be how they treat the tourism industry . Although Western tourism is a critically important source of employment and foreign currency in both countries , some Muslims have criticized the industry for promoting alcohol and other relaxed social conventions that threaten Islamic values . So far , both al-Nahda and the PJD have taken a pragmatic stance . They recognize that , while their supporters may be devout Muslims , they also need to earn a living ; empty hotels and beaches would be economically disastrous . Thus , tourism professionals in both countries have received strong government assurances that business will continue as usual . Some European analysts predict that , over the longer term , greater stability will follow the political changes in the Maghreb , with perhaps more than a million unemployed Moroccan and Tunisian immigrants returning home if their countries' economies improve . That remains very much an open question . Islamist parties will now have enormous influence on economic policy , after decades of official separation of mosque and state . Islamic banking , for example , may soon be introduced , though some local and foreign investors argue that sharia regulations could drive away much-needed foreign investment . There are also concerns about inexperienced Islamist officials' ability to run finance ministries . But the region's Islamist parties appear to be conscious of these risks , and determined to mitigate them . They know that they need economic growth to curb unemployment and pay for social services , so they are working to bolster the private sector . In many cases , they are even advocating the kind of free-market policies that their secular predecessors favored . Those policies should include trade liberalization . Until now , less than 2 % of the Maghreb countries' foreign trade has remained within the region . If the region's new leaders can integrate their economies , a market of more than 75 million consumers would attract more foreign investment and trade with the rest of the world . Before an economically unified Maghreb can be realized , however , inter-state conflicts such as the Algerian-Moroccan dispute over the "" Western "" Sahara must be resolved . Otherwise , it will be difficult even to conceive a common future – without which the economic grievances that fueled the Maghreb's revolutions are likely to continue . Much like the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt , al-Nahda and the PJD will have to marginalize Islamic extremists in their movements , such as the Salafis , and adopt a pragmatic approach . To succeed economically , they will need Western support – and the West will not be eager to fund radical Islamist governments . As they negotiate the realities of modern economic life , the Maghreb's Islamist ruling parties are likely to lose some supporters . But , unless they are willing to break with the past , they will not succeed in the present ."	News
944	"For International Orders please refer to the international ordering procedures page or click on the link below before continuing . International Orders PAYPAL CUSTOMERS If you are paying by paypal you will be asked to leave our site to login to paypal . Once payment has been placed you must return to our site to complete the process and submit the order . Many thanks . Please bear in mind there is a £ 5 . 00 minimum order . Any orders under £ 5 . 00 will be charged £ 1 . 00 at the checkout to cover admin costs ( as per delivery info page ) . When you have added a product to the shopping cart and click continue shopping you may go back to that same product list by clicking on your backspace button until you arrive there or you may go via the products menu . SECURE ONLINE ORDERING Review your order below . To change the quantity of an item , enter a new number in the Qty . box and click Update . To remove an item , click the Trash Can . To save your order while continuing to shop , click Continue Shopping . To place your order now , click Checkout . There are no items in your shopping cart . Click "" Continue Shopping "" button to return to the last page you were viewing ."	Instruction
907	"Cause and Effect By Travis Geoffroy & Kevin Smith Chapter 2 : Dark Alliance The wind howled at their feet as two warriors stared each other down whilst wielding their keyblades , ready to attack . The key male bearer wore an outfit with red , puffed out pants , dark red boots , a red vest with a black shirt underneath it , and a crimson red cape . He also wore a red and black wristband on his left hand and had long , wavy red hair . The female key bearer dressed in a short , light brown skirt , long , high-heeled , dark brown boots , a tan , tight-fitting tank top , long , silk , tan gloves that reached up to her elbows . She too wore a wristband , but on her right hand and it was brown and tan . She had long , wavy hair also , but it was brown with tan streaks . She used her control over the earth to levitate a boulder and fling it at her opponent . He leapt over it and landed perfectly on the ground . He smiled and said "" Now , what 's a beautiful girl like you doing away from the salon "" . She then made the boulder he dodged come back and fall on top of him . "" Now , what 's a weakling like you doing fighting a keyblade master of my status "" said the apparently earth-based warrior . Suddenly , the boulder began to tremor violently and then it exploded in a fiery blast . "" Weakling ? I think not , baby cakes "" said the fire-based warrior as he flipped his hair back and smiled at her . "" I have a name , you know . It 's Roseria , imbecile "" said Roseria frowning . "" A pretty name for a pretty woman . The name's Sion "" complimented Sion . "" Enough sweet talk , attack me if you can "" said Roseria as she readied her self . "" As you wish , my dear "" said Sion as he used magma to melt the ground beneath her and she was soon trapped in an extremely deep hole . "" Hmph , to think this could hold me "" she retorted and raised the ground to elevate herself above the hole . As soon as she did this , Sion struck her with his keyblade and she fell to the floor . He ran towards her , but she used plants to form a cage around him . He tried to break it with his keyblade , but it was no use . "" I think you 'll find it quite impossible to break out of that "" Smirked Roseria . Sion then smiled and ignited his keyblade with fire and hit the binding plants again , but this time they withered at to the flames . He tried to hit her again with his keyblade , but she back flipped out of the way and threw her keyblade at him . It twirled his way until it hit him squarely in his hip and then came back to her . He knelt to the floor in pain . She jumped into the air and came down with her keyblade aiming at him . He blocked it with his and they struggled with each other , pushing their keyblades against the other 's in hopes of one of them giving up soon . Sion powered his keyblade with fire to get an advantage , but Roseria hardened her keyblade with earth , which made them evenly matched . Soon , the earth covering her keyblade crumbled under the pressure and fire surrounding Sion's keyblade extinguished because of a lack of power . They jumped back and away from each other . "" No more games . Time to get serious ! "" said Roseria as another keyblade appeared in her other hand . "" Could n't have said it better myself "" agreed Sion as he did the same , but he immediately ignited his with fire . Roseria strengthened her keyblades with the ground and attacked . They swung quickly to try and make contact , but both of them were too fast to get hit . Flames and pebbles scattered everywhere whenever the keyblades made contact . Sion hit her in the shoulder and it burned her , but she hit him in the face and bruised him . She raised a rock out of the ground and jumped on top of it to fly into the air . Sion used an eruption of fire to rise up to her height and onto the boulder on which she stood . From doing this he gained the advantage . Roseria had to concentrate on piloting the rock and fighting Sion while he only had to concentrate on fighting her . They keyblades struck each other countless times in an attempt to end this battle . Sion tripped her and she fell off of the floating rock . With Roseria down , there was nothing holding up the levitating boulder , Sion fell too . He recovered and formed a cage of fire around Roseria . She tried to slice through it , but it just hit the flames and did nothing more . "" I think you 'll find it quite impossible to escape that . Ha ha ha "" laughed Sion . Roseria smiled when she came up with an idea . She held her breath and formed an air tight cave around them both . Without any oxygen , the fire cage extinguished and she destroyed the cave . He hit her with his keyblade and burned her thigh . She tried to get up , but Sion held his flaming keyblade in front of her face to stop her . "" Do n't move "" he said as she stopped and lay on her back and started to shed tears of defeat . "" Do n't worry . I wo n't kill you "" said Sion as Roseria looked up in confusion . "" Join me . We 'll help the endless together "" said Sion smiling at her . For the first time , she smiled back . "" Thank you . Oh and I apologize for my bad judgment , Sion "" She said as she looked into his red colored eyes . He held her chin with his fingertips and kissed her . She was enjoying it , but he stopped and turned around . "" Come on . Let's go babe "" said Sion and she followed curiously . "" Lift us to his lair so we can inform him of our alliance "" said Sion as she lifted a boulder up to the floating island in space where "" he "" resides ."	Prose/Lyrical
668	"All our products are covered by a 12 month parts and labour guarantee . You will invalidate this guarantee if you use the products contrary to instructions supplied with them OR if you cause any damage to the products through misuse or negligent use of them . This guarantee does not cover products becoming defective through normal usage or normal wear and tear . If you return products under this guarantee we will , at our choice , either replace or repair the products , or , if appropriate , any parts of them . This guarantee does not affect your statutory rights . Product description Full descriptions of our products are given in this catalogue . The products are suitable for the uses described ; any other use is at your own risk . As part of our continuing programme of product development , we reserve the right to improve and update product designs . Some of the products shown may not be available for the whole life of the catalogue . Measurements and weights Metric measurements for products are followed by the imperial equivalent and are approximate . The approximate weight of a product is only given if appropriate . Product instructions There are instructions for all the products in this catalogue , where applicable . Instructions will be available in large print , braille or tape . Please select your preferred format for receiving product instructions when you register . You may change your preferred format for instructions under "" My Account "" once you have registered . Is the product dishwasher safe ? No. Unless otherwise stated , products listed in the catalogue are not dishwasher safe . Need help ? Contact us on : 0845 702 3153 ."	Promotion
291	Tue Jan 24 2006 Jobs : Arabic & Computational Linguistics : Dean , Sohar U Editor for this issue : Vanessa Manion vanessa linguistlist . o rg The LINGUIST List strongly encourages employers to use non-discriminatory standards in hiring policy . In particular we urge that employers do not discriminate on the grounds of race , ethnicity , nationality , age , religion , gender , or sexual orientation . However , we have no means of enforcing these standards . Job seekers should pay special attention to language in ads regarding employment requirements and are encouraged to consult our international employment page http://linguistlist.org/jobs/jobnet.html. This page has been set up so that people can report on the employment standards of various countries . To post to LINGUIST , use our convenient web form at http://linguistlist.org/LL/posttolinguist.html. Directory 1 . Mark Pedersen , Arabic & Computational Linguistics : Dean , Sohar University , Oman Message 1 : Arabic & Computational Linguistics : Dean , Sohar University , Oman Date : 24-Jan-2006 From : Mark Pedersen mj . p edersen gmail . c om Subject : Arabic & Computational Linguistics : Dean , Sohar University , Oman University or Organization : Sohar University Department : Faculty of Applied Science Job Rank : Dean Specialty Areas : Computational Linguistics Required Language ( s ) : Arabic , Standard ( arb ) Description : Sohar University seeks applications from suitably qualified academic staff for the position of Dean of the Faculty of Applied Science . The Faculty of Applied Science offers undergraduate degrees in a range of fields of computer science and is active in postgraduate research . Sohar University was the first private university in Oman and is affiliated with the University of Queensland in Australia . The curriculum for the Sohar University undergraduate degrees is modelled on the curriculum of equivalent degrees at the University of Queensland , and all courses at Sohar University are quality assured by the University of Queensland biannually . All courses in the Faculty of Applied Science are taught in English . Under the leadership of the former Dean , Professor Joachim Diederich , the faculty developed an internationally recognized research profile in the areas of machine learning , natural language processing and distributed systems . Faculty research and teaching activity includes a focus on Arabic Natural Language Processing . A fourth year undergraduate course on Natural Language Processing seeks to develop students with skills relevant to information processing in the Gulf region , and final year research projects may also focus on topics in this area . Research projects include development of a wide-coverage Lexical Functional Grammar of Arabic as part of the Parallel Grammar project in collaboration with the Palo Alto Research Centre ( PARC ) , and affiliated international and regional institutions . Related work includes the development of Arabic question answering systems ; development of techniques for the automated creation of transfer lexicons ; techniques for the creation of semantic resources for Arabic in the style of WordNet ; statistical and machine learning techniques for morphological analysis and parsing of Arabic ; the application of machine learning to text classification and tasks related to classification of mental health and medical data . The new Dean would be expected to provide leadership in further developing these and other areas of research . Sohar is rapidly becoming the largest chemical industrial city in the Gulf States with over USD13 billion being invested in new industries . The Faculty of Applied Science already has strong research links with industries in Sohar , and the new Dean would be expected to strengthen these links with industry . Applicants for the position of Dean of the Faculty of Applied Science would be expected to have an extensive teaching and research profile at the professorial level . Remuneration is set at a base salary of 1800-2000 O. R per month , with a living allowance of 350 O. R per month and a transport allowance of 175 O. R. per month . Salaries and allowances are tax exempt . Expatriates are entitled to 49 days of annual leave including a return airfare to the country of origin for the Dean , his wife and two children under the age of 18 years . Applicants are requested to forward a comprehensive curriculum vitae , and the names of at least four academic referees to Professor Michael Irving , Vice-Chancellor of Sohar University , P. O. Box 44 Sohar , 311 Sultanate of Oman . Applications close on 31 January 2006 . For further information , contact : Professor Michael Irving , Vice-Chancellor of Sohar University . m . i rving soharuni . e du . o m Address for Applications : Prof Michael Irving Sohar University PO Box 44 Sohar PC311 Oman Application Deadline : Open until filled . Contact Information : Prof Michael Irving Email : m . i rving soharuni . e du . o m Phone : +968 2670101 ext 404 Respond to list | Read more issues | LINGUIST home page | Top of issue	Promotion
383	"First published on 25 July 2003 The last laugh DOUG Bower , who claims to have been Britain's first crop circle hoaxer , has been on the Marlborough Downs showing a Japanese film crew how it 's done . Mr Bower and his late friend Dave Chorley became famed as Doug and Dave when they claimed ten years ago that they had produced most of the crop circles for many years . The Southampton pair appeared on TV programmes showing how they made the cornfield patterns with trampling devices made from pieces of wood and rope . They managed to achieve the complex patterns , they said , with the aid of wire sights on the peaks of baseball caps . Mr Chorley died a couple of years ago but by that time the pair had long given up going out under the cover of darkness to make crop circles all over the South of England . On Thursday Mr Bower , who is now 79 , showed a Japanese film crew making a documentary how he could still make a crop pattern using the same piece of wood and rope he started out with in the late 1970s . The film company , Media Nations Inc , is making a documentary about Doug and Dave and their claim that they were the first people in the UK to make crop circles . And it paid dozens of local people £ 50 a day to act as extras . At the end of the first day 's filming Mr Bower , an artist and picture framer , told the Gazette that the only crop patterns that could be found until he and Mr Chorley teamed up were simple circles and swirls made by gusts of wind . Mr Bower said he had spent eight years living in Melbourne in Australia . "" It was while I was there in 1962 that I read about three circles appearing on a farm at Tulley in Queensland , "" he said . He returned to England in 1966 to live at Southampton where he opened an art gallery and became friendly with fellow painter Mr Chorley . Mr Bower said : "" We got to know each other well because we had the same interests and were both artists . "" They went out and about together painting on location and , said Mr Bower , it was while walking in fields near Winchester in 1978 that the idea of making crop circles came up in conversation . That was the start of Britain's first crop circle making team . "" Until then all the so-called crop circles had been the result of wind damage , "" said Mr Bower . On evenings over the next 14 years they travelled hundreds of miles from their homes in Southampton to make elaborate patterns in cereal crops as far away as Gloucestershire and Oxfordshire . Meanwhile they sat back and laughed , said Mr Bower , as so called experts began giving reasons for the crop circles ranging from inter-galactic messages to UFO landings . Mr Bower , who is still sprightly , said : "" We went as far as Eastbourne in the east and as far north as Wantage making crop circles at every opportunity we had . "" Sometimes , he said , they would make several in a night before returning home to Southampton by dawn , tired but ecstatic at the way they had the world hoodwinked . He said : "" We made a lot in Wiltshire because that is where the most fuss was being made about them because of the Avebury and Stonehenge link . "" We used to work out the designs on paper so that we knew what we would be doing when we got to a suitable field . "" I still have those original designs which prove how early we started making them . "" Mr Bower said he and his friend used to spend the winter in his studio planning bigger and more complex patterns to make the following summer . "" For 14 years we had everyone fooled , we were the only ones making the patterns although of course we never let on , "" said Mr Bower . He said one reason they continued for so long without telling the world what was causing the mysterious crop pictograms was to poke fun at the establishment and the many so-called experts who expounded serious and complex reasons for the phenomenon . "" We did it for 14 years without anybody being able to prove they were man-made , "" he said . "" Our big reward was in winding up those people who regarded themselves as experts and claimed they knew what was causing them . "" We knew what was causing them , it was us , and at that time we were the only people making them . "" Mr Bower said nowadays there are a number of teams competing to see who can make the biggest and most complex patterns . The documentary was filmed on Richard Hues' land at Stanton St Bernard and the farmer was compensated by the Japanese production company for the damage to his crop . Among those paid to act as extras was Marlborough mum Bryony Sutton and her 20-year-old daughter Rosie . Both had just completed a film making course at Swindon College and were interested in seeing how the professionals worked . Mrs Sutton said : "" The director recruited extras from the Barge Inn at Honeystreet and from some other places and we spent three days filming at Alton Barnes and Stanton St Bernard . "" Rosie played a journalist ostensibly reporting on the crop circle mania . Mrs Sutton said : "" The film crew and the director were all fine , they were very sweet . "" There was a terrible problem though with the language barrier which caused a few difficulties to start with . "" They spoke little English and our Japanese was non existent but it was all a good laugh . "" The programme will be show on Nippon TV in Japan but may be syndicated worldwide . Back to 2003 index"	News
468	"We were very pleased with the impact and awareness generated by the Transit Connect launch poster site campaign . There is no doubt that when used in conjunction with TV , specialist press and online activity , outdoor provides a measurable lift to your activities .  John Knight , Communications Co-ordinator , Commercial Vehicle Brand Team , Ford of Britain The Ford Transit has an automatic place on the consideration list for medium commercial vehicles . The aim for the launch of the Ford Transit Connect was to do the same for its little brother in the light and sub one tonne markets . Outdoor worked alongside TV , specialist press and online activity to promote a message that focused on the new van1s strength and design . Using 96-sheet , 48-sheet and 6-sheet formats the campaign used the tagline "" toughness now comes in a brand new shape "" to promote the all-new Transit Connect . The slogan "" Job Done "" and the trademark tick used on Transit campaigns also tied the launch into the parent brand and emphasised the "" can-do "" functionality of the two models . The research looked to test the impact of the campaign and discover whether the Transit Connect had been recognised as part of the Transit brand and the overall Ford family . Campaign results The campaign reinforced Ford1s position as a major van manufacturer . It dominated responses to the question "" have you seen any advertising for van manufacturers ? "" , scoring 36.7 % well ahead of its rivals . Total spontaneous awareness of Ford van advertising hit 83.7 % after the campaign while the Ford Transit Connect activity scored 79.7 % . Outdoor played a key role in building this awareness with 44 % of consumers having seen the posters . Among the key audience of van drivers , owners and operators the figure was even higher at 52 % , all other media showed a decline against this demographic . Brand scores against attributes such as "" tough new light van "" and having "" rugged durability "" improved , demonstrating that the new toughness message had been effectively communicated . Outdoor contributed to a highly effective launch campaign , playing a key role in hitting the target audience of van drivers , owners and operators . The creative message was successfully transmitted and awareness was high ."	Promotion
897	"Of these was Rahero sprung , a man of a godly race ; And inherited cunning of spirit and beauty of body and face . Of yore in his youth , as an aito , Rahero wandered the land , Delighting maids with his tongue , smiting men with his hand . Famous he was in his youth ; but before the midst of his life Paused , and fashioned a song of farewell to glory and strife . House of mine ( it went ) , house upon the sea , Belov 'd of all my fathers , more belov 'd by me ! Vale of the strong Honoura , deep ravine of Pai , Again in your woody summits I hear the trade-wind cry . House of mine , in your walls , strong sounds the sea , Of all sounds on earth , dearest sound to me . I have heard the applause of men , I have heard it arise and die : Sweeter now in my house I hear the trade-wind cry . These were the words of his singing , other the thought of his heart ; For secret desire of glory vexed him , dwelling apart . Lazy and crafty he was , and loved to lie in the sun , And loved the cackle of talk and the true word uttered in fun ; Lazy he was , his roof was ragged , his table was lean , And the fish swam safe in his sea , and he gathered the near and the green . He sat in his house and laughed , but he loathed the king of the land , And he uttered the grudging word under the covering hand . Treason spread from his door ; and he looked for a day to come , A day of the crowding people , a day of the summoning drum , When the vote should be taken , the king be driven forth in disgrace , And Rahero , the laughing and lazy , sit and rule in his place , Here Tamatea came , and beheld the house on the brook ; And Rahero was there by the way and covered an oven to cook . { 1c } Naked he was to the loins , but the tattoo covered the lack , And the sun and the shadow of palms dappled his muscular back . Swiftly he lifted his head at the fall of the coming feet , And the water sprang in his mouth with a sudden desire of meat ; For he marked the basket carried , covered from flies and the sun ; { 1d } And Rahero buried his fire , but the meat in his house was done . Forth he stepped ; and took , and delayed the boy , by the hand ; And vaunted the joys of meat and the ancient ways of the land : - "" Our sires of old in Taiarapu , they that created the race , Ate ever with eager hand , nor regarded season or place , Ate in the boat at the oar , on the way afoot ; and at night Arose in the midst of dreams to rummage the house for a bite . It is good for the youth in his turn to follow the way of the sire ; And behold how fitting the time ! for here do I cover my fire . "" - "" I see the fire for the cooking but never the meat to cook , "" Said Tamatea . -- "" Tut ! "" said Rahero . "" Here in the brook And there in the tumbling sea , the fishes are thick as flies , Hungry like healthy men , and like pigs for savour and size : Crayfish crowding the river , sea-fish thronging the sea . "" - "" Well it may be , "" says the other , "" and yet be nothing to me . Fain would I eat , but alas ! I have needful matter in hand , Since I carry my tribute of fish to the jealous king of the land . "" Now at the word a light sprang in Rahero's eyes . "" I will gain me a dinner , "" thought he , "" and lend the king a surprise . "" And he took the lad by the arm , as they stood by the side of the track , And smiled , and rallied , and flattered , and pushed him forward and back . It was "" You that sing like a bird , I never have heard you sing , "" And "" The lads when I was a lad were none so feared of a king . And of what account is an hour , when the heart is empty of guile ? But come , and sit in the house and laugh with the women awhile ; And I will but drop my hook , and behold ! the dinner made . "" So Tamatea the pliable hung up his fish in the shade On a tree by the side of the way ; and Rahero carried him in , Smiling as smiles the fowler when flutters the bird to the gin , And chose him a shining hook , { 1e } and viewed it with sedulous eye , And breathed and burnished it well on the brawn of his naked thigh , And set a mat for the gull , and bade him be merry and bide , Like a man concerned for his guest , and the fishing , and nothing beside ."	Prose/Lyrical
488	Model E Wolf , J ahn precision miller with backgear headstock and power longitudinal feed . This machine resembles many others by similar makers of very high-quality machine tools - Mikron , Pratt & Whitney , Rivett , Waltham , Ames , etc. - being based upon a headstock adapted from a lathe . In this case the head has been arranged to slide up and down a vertical slide but is , in all other respects , similar to the simpler horizontal machines illustrated below . Model A Wolf , J ahn precision milling machine which used the headstock assembly from the Model DD lathe with a 15 mm bore ; The 350 mm x 120 mm table had a longitudinal movement of 250 mm , a cross feed of 120 mm and a vertical travel of 170 mm . Another model , the B , a power feed version of which is illustrated below , used exactly the same arrangement of headstock and compound slide , but with a backgeared version of the headstock . With its unsupported spindle the machine was only capable of stub milling and to overcome this drawback Wolf , J ahn offered the more robust and versatile G2 . Model B Wolf , J ahn precision milling machine , based on the Model A above , but with power longitudinal feed and a backgeared headstock . A high-quality vertical miller , jig-borer and jig-driller by an unknown maker - but advertised in the Melhuish catalogue of 1898 and quite possibly a Wolf-Jahn . The machine stood 22.5 inches tall , with a base 22 inches long and 11 inches wide ; The nose of the 3 / 4-inch diameter , tool-steel spindle stood 3.5 inches clear of the rotary table and ran in hardened double - cone bearings 1 3 / 16 - inches in diameter ; it was bored clear through and accepted collets tightened by a draw tube , the handwheels of which can be seen in position . The longitudinal travel of the table was 6.75 inches and the traverse movement 5.5 inches ; the machine weighed approximately 165 lbs and cost £ 30 - as much at the time as a fully specified , English-manufactured five-inch centre height Britannia No. 16 backgeared and screwcutting lathe on a treadle stand .	Information/Explanation
431	"THE QUESTION IN SCOTLAND FIFTY YEARS AGO . I. One of my earliest recollections is the rattle of the muskets when a company of soldiers , marched into Easter Ross to keep down the excited population in 1843 , grounded their arms in the High Street of the old burgh of Tain . They were drawn up in front of the grey tower on the Castle hill , which half hid the long blue line of Sutherlandshire hills , while far to the right our horizon showed the ruined Keep of Lochslin , the birthplace of the Bloody Mackenzie . It was the centre of a district in which the display of some military force had become necessary . About a year before , the Church of Scotland had solemnly undertaken to disestablish itself ; and that promise had now to be fulfilled , but by a very different process from the comfortable euthanasia of retaining a life-interest in the benefices . Most of the Northern ministers adhered to their pledge ; but each of them still held that the church of the parish belonged to its congregation , and the congregations ( who were with them almost unanimously ) held still more strongly that the manse ought to be left with the outgoing minister . That was not to be . It was found not easy to drive the Gaelic congregations from the low grey walls of the Easter Ross churches , each surrounded by the generations of its dead . And though it was easy enough to send out from his home each minister and his family , the actual accomplishment of this , which was now going on , filled every household in the Highlands with a dangerous mixture of anguish and indignation . In this particular district there were special reasons for strong feeling . The people were not under the control of one great proprietor , ducal or otherwise ; but still there were attempts to terrorise . A powerful landholder in the neighbourhood announced that no labourer should be permitted to do a stroke of work on his estates , unless on the previous Sunday he had attended the religious service provided by the State . The labourers , backed by their friends in the towns , stood shoulder to shoulder , and escaped the whole evil so threatened . But their spiritual leaders , the ministers in town and country , did not escape from any part of what had hung over them . Accordingly , a stranger scene than even that which Ross-shire peasants and burghers now gazed upon had been transacted a few days before in the metropolis of Scotland . It was a grey and cloudy afternoon on the ridge of the new town of Edinburgh , where masses of spectators gathered in breathless expectation round the tall spire of St. Andrew's Church . Into its interior , crowded since early dawn with a like eager multitude , the members of Assembly and the glittering cortege of the Queen's Commissioner had just disappeared . The doors were now shut , and all Scotland seemed to wait outside . Suddenly they were broken open , and a roar of acclamation rent the air as the ex-Moderator in his robes , and by his side the venerable face of Chalmers , were seen to appear . For following these two came the leaders of the Evangelical revival in the Church of Scotland from Highlands and Lowlands alike . The crowd surged in emotion around them , so as to make the old men in front the head of an involuntary procession . It took a few steps westward , and then , turning to the right , moved down the steep brow of that long slope which connects northern Edinburgh with the sea . One by one the ministers then in Edinburgh , who had resolved to cast in their lot with the Church , fell into the moving line . But after them marched a train of young men , "" licentiates "" or candidates , who had looked forward to its benefices , but who ( like all its missionaries without exception in foreign lands ) chose now to belong to this its forlorn hope . Together they set their faces to the long descent into that valley of humiliation . Before them the waters of the firth gleamed under the blue and bitter north , and beyond it stretched many a moor and strath , with the manses which the old men were in a few weeks to leave and the young men were never to enter . To one of those manses I had paid an unseasonable morning visit two months before . There was a bright March sunrise , and I had jumped early out of bed , for my head was full of marbles and peg-tops , and a dozen or so of games before breakfast has , at that age , its attractions . To my astonishment , I found my father down before me ; indeed , he had evidently been there for some time , for the moment I appeared he folded up the newspaper in which he had been so unseasonably engaged , and - with a break in his voice indicating an emotion that was unaccountable to me - asked me to take it at once over to the manse , with his compliments to his friend the minister . I went very readily , for the hedgerows were full of young birds upon whom legitimate hostilities could be waged in passing . But as I went I reflected on the austere and stately , image of our pastor , - a man everywhere venerated , but whose face inspired awe rather than love in the beholder - ( had I not seen the town-boys break and scatter round one corner of the street as he appeared at the other ? ) - and I resolved that my interview with him should be short . It was shorter than I expected , for I had scarcely got out of the sunshine into the manse evergreens , when I found him in the porch and when I offered him the newspaper , he showed me that he had already got the Times by some unusual express , and as he spoke he patted my head and smiled - but such a smile , so full of radiant kindliness ! I was confounded ; and as I went back between the hedges the birds sang unheeded while I thought what could have happened to the minister . Had anybody left him a fortune ? or had he met one of the Shining Ones walking among the hollies in that early dawn ? And it was not for some weeks that I found out that this was what had happened - the newspaper that morning had brought him the vote of the House of Commons , finally refusing an inquiry into the affairs of the Scottish Church , and so making it certain that within a few weeks he and his aged mother would leave for ever the home , at the door of which I found him . But the "" gentleness and gaiety "" of heart with which we are told , in a memorable passage of Lord Cockburn , that the country ministers faced the coming of the crisis , did not free them from having to go through with it afterwards in all its grinding detail . This was the point of one of the most striking reminiscences of Dr. Thomas Guthrie at a later date ; "" I remember passing a manse on a moonlight night , with ' the minister who had left it , for the cause of truth . No light shone from the house , and no smoke arose . Pointing to it in the moonlight , I said , ' Oh , my friend , it was a noble thing to leave that house . ' ' Ah , yes , ' he replied ; ' it was a noble thing , but for all that it was a bitter thing . I shall never forget the night I left that house till I am laid in my grave . When I saw my wife and children go forth in the gloaming ; when I saw them for the last time leave our own door ; and when in the dark I was left alone , with none but my God in that house ; and when I had to take water and quench the fire on my own hearth , and put out the candle in my own house , and turn the key against myself , and my wife , and my little ones that night - God in His mercy grant that such a night I may never again see ! "" Those who left their homes at once , as most in Ross-shire were now doing , had perhaps the best of it . But some were gladly allowed to linger on till the early Northern winter . "" One minister writes to us that he left the manse with his family in a snow storm , when the mountain was white with snow , and the sky was black with drift ; but that he never knew so much of the peace of God as he did that night , when following his wife and children as they were carted over the mountain , without knowing where they were to find a place to dwell in . Some of our ministers write that they live in crofters' houses ; some in places as damp as cellars , where a candle will not burn . One says he sits with his great coat on ; another that the curtains of his bed shake at night like the sails of a ship in a storm . One minister , a friend of mine , lives in a house which every wind of heaven blows through . On getting up one morning he found the house all comparatively comfortable , and wondered what good genius had been putting it in order , when he discovered that a heavy shower of snow had fallen , and stopped up the crevices of the roof . "" It must always be remembered that the country , and especially the Highlands , were different in this respect from the great towns , even after that first winter of 1843 . It was some years before the Northern manses were built , and homelessness , added to poverty , pressed heavily on the ejected ministers . I remember how , as a boy , I used to watch one of them , a scholarly , and in his college days a rather distinguished man , who after 1843 was unable to find a home within his own parish , and who besides now laboured under a weak chest and a threatening of heart complaint . Yet week after week , as each Sunday morning came round , he persisted in driving away for miles through those inclement winters to meet his congregation ; and I can remember to this day his keen , delicate face set to meet a heavy snow-storm from the northwest , while a hacking cough shook his whole frame as he set out on his journey , four miles of which must pass ore he caught sight of the well-sheltered and well-remembered manse . But those who , like him , found shelter in a town dwelling , however humble , were not worst off . The great difficulty was in the country , even when harbouring the minister was not forbidden by the great landlords . But in many cases , and occasionally over whole districts or counties , it was forbidden . And where a foot of ground was forbidden to the minister , as well as to his congregation , the results , always depressing to him , and cruelly distressing to his family , sometimes reached a pitch of strange and memorable oppression . I have myself often conversed with the minister of "" Small Isles "" - four inhabited rocks clustering together out in the wild Atlantic - whose ministry , forbidden on those morsels of the land , was carried on in the boat upon the billow which his school friend , Hugh Miller , celebrated as the Floating Manse . ( see Intrusion for more , and some pictures ) And I stood as a boy in the mighty cavern near Cape Wrath beside the pure-hearted pastor who , when ejected with his people from their church and manse on the ground of a site-refusing Duke , worshipped throughout the winter under those humid arches , while the only "" iife interests "" conceded him were in the savage rock and resounding shore . In the awakening of thought which such scenes stirred in the young , there was a strong moral element , not stimulating only , but animating . "" All good things have not kept aloof , nor wandered into other ways , "" was the irrepressible feeling of lads who had been drifting on towards the dull afternoon of the century , and were suddenly surrounded by this illuminating glow . Apparently then , their country , too , was to have a future as well as a past . For it was plain , oven in 1843 , that the great event of that year was essentially transitional . It left Scotland in a state of unstable equilibrium , and confronted it with a problem , political no doubt , but moral as well . And what might a history not call for in the future which revealed such gulfs and altitudes in the present ? What might such a country not yet claim of its sons ? Above all , what did it not already deserve at their hands ? Those of them who are most conscious of having failed in obedience to the early vision , do yet , in looking back , recognise the nobility of its call - a call which they have found most noble and most adequate precisely when they are brought nearest to some crisis of public duty . Those , on the other hand , who "" think they pay every debt to virtue when they praise it , "" have never had a comfortable time in Scotland . The occasions for not merely admiring but imitating return too frequently . And for some time past there has been a well-founded apprehension in all parts of the Scottish Church that its complete freedom or its complete union may involve some of its members in a share - say , one-sixteenth or one - sixtieth part - of the same self-sacrifice as was shown in 1843 . That , of course , is not a plea that can be nakedly stated , nor is it one which many men in their hcarts entertain . The mass of the Scottish people , even when within the establishment , hold the principles which in that year drove their brethren out of it . And the only recent occasions , when illusory legislation in its favour has had even a passing chance of success , were when it was promised as "" on the lines of 1843 , "" or as "" all that was asked for "" in that year . But the contact of the unsatisfied claim of past history with the demand of present duty is far too suggestive to be safe ; and from time to time we hear , even in Scotland , unmeaning and gratuitous protests that the Disruption happened a long time ago - that it is now happily forgotten - and that , perhaps , to tell the truth , it never deserved to he remembered . As Free Churchmen born in the Scottish Highlands hear these recurrent clamours , we seem to see rising before us once more those grave suffering faces , most of them by this time gone down into a deeper silence ; and the utterance of their stillness is not nnlike that of our new Norse poet , - "" When thou hearest the fool rejoicing , and he saith , ' It is over and past , And the wrong was better tban right , and hate turns into love at the last And we strove for nothing at all , and the gods have fallen asleep , For so good the world is growing that the evil good shall reap , ' Then loosen thy sword in the scabbard , and settle the helm on thy head , For men betrayed are mighty , and great are the wrongfully dead . "" Bnt may the dead not have made a heroic mistake ? Was there , after all , any reason why they should sacrifice themselves and go out ? The answer must be given ; but readers who find constitutional facts too dry may pass over the next few pages . III In Scotland , which , as a whole , has been Presbyterian since the Reformation , the Church party has generally been the popular party . What is more strange to English ears , the Evangelical party has , on the whole , been the Church party , all revival here of religions feeling or individual conviction tending to take shape in public and organised action . Ten years before 1843 the General Assembly , or representative body of the ministers and laity of the Church , had begun to show an "" evangelical majority . "" It at once set about the work of Church reform , and especially of Church expansion , in two directions . The Church , by its own authority , welcomed to a seat in its courts the pastors of the two hundred new congregations , which had been gathered together chiefly through the devotion and eloquence of Dr. Chalmers . At the same time , and in the same way , it admitted a considerable number of Original Secession and other ministers who had returned to the reviving Establishment . Church Extension and Church Union , indeed , were supposed to be the great aggressive duties of the new time ; and the fact that ordinary Church administration has always been left in Scotland to the Church itself - the ordinary jurisdiction of its courts has never been intorfered with either before or after 1843 - naturally led to the belief that Church legislation and Church development might also be free . This was found to be a mistake , amid the refusal of places and votes to those who had been admitted by the Ecclesiastical body was in the long run the immediate cause of the Protest and Disruption of 1843 . But the third and earliest occasion of the quarrel with the State was the old question of patronage , which has broken out in so many lands , and which , under the name of Investiture , caused , in the eleventh century , the greatest conflict of Church and State which the world has seen . In Scotland , however , the veto upon arbitrary nomination by a patron was now declared to belong , not to pope , churchman , or chapter , but to the whole "" congregation of the faithful people . "" And this third measure was represented by the Assembly which passed it in 1834 , as a defensive rather than aggressive regulation - founded , indeed , on what was at all times a "" fundamental law of the Church . "" Suddenly , in the midst of so much expansive energy and enthusiasm , a crushing blow fell upon them . All three reforms were declared by the Law Courts to be incompetent ; but what was far more alarming was the ground on which in each case the conclusion was based . It was , that the Scottish Establishment is absolutely subject , even in matters ecclesiastical , to the State and to its enactments , past and future . The present constitutional law , that the Church of Scotland is in no sense independent of the State , but is absolutely subject to Parliament and to Statute , was then , for the first time , solemnly laid down . Take the three heads of the Court alone . President Hope put it thus : "" That our Saviour is the Head of the Kirk of Scotland in any temporal , or legislative , or judicial sense , is a position which I can signify by no other name than absurdity . The Parliament is the temporal head of the Church , from whose acts , and from whose acts alone , it exists as the National Church , and from which alone it derives all its powers . "" Again , "" Who gave the Church courts any jurisdiction ? The law and that alone gave it ; and the law defines what it has so given . "" And as the Church was not independent , they denied the possibility of any original compact , or of any real conflict , between Church and State , as an "" indecent supposition . "" Even the courts of the State were entitled to fix for the Church its separate province granted by the State . So President Boyle : "" There exists , in reality , no such thing as a conflict between the civil and ecclesiastical courts of a country , in which a church is established and endowed by the State . "" And so Lord Justice - Clerk Hope : "" I can not admit that an Establishment can ever possess an independent jurisdiction . "" And of course , on these principles , the courts made short work of the claim , that the Church was not bound to obey Acts of Parliament which proposed to regulate spiritual or Church actings . Several of the judges put it that the Church is "" the creature of Statute ; "" all of them that it is bound to obey Statutes which regulate , or , in its own view , interfere with , its proper church action . Take again only two of the utterances , and both from the chair of the court . In the third Auchterarder case , the Presbytery had pleaded that what they were called on to do was strictly ecclesiastical , was against their conscience , and against the commands of the Church . Lord Justice-Clerk Hope answered that although these functions are "" strictly ecclesiastical , and to be exercised by them in their ecclesiastical capacity , yet the obligation to perform them is statutory - Statute imposes the duty on the Church courts of the establishment , "" and the courts must enforce the statute . And when in the still higher sphere of the House of Lords it had been pleaded in addition , that there was a "" fundamental law "" of the Church of Scotland which forbade such Church action , even in compliance with statute , the Lord Chancellor of Great Britain , sitting as chief of the Jurisprudence of Scotland , enounced the general rule which has ever since been the law , as follows : "" Whether that is , or ever was , a law of the Church of Scotland , is perfectly immaterial , if the Statutes contain enactments and confer rights inconsistent with any such principle , or with the execution of any such law . "" ( Chalmers held otherwise , based on an Act of 1600 - ish , which he could quote , by which the Church of Scotland was specifically given certain defined rights . These points were never addressed by the Courts . - Webmaster ) It followed that the Church and its office-bearers were bound legally , and if they accepted the law would be bound legally and morally , to obey any statute the State might pass in the future , no matter how inconsistent it might be with the present or past principles of the Church - to obey it not merely passively , but actively , and as ecclesiastical functionaries . The obligation of individuals to obey actively received great prominence at an early stage of the decisions ; but before their close it was plain that on the principles now laid down the Church itself was in a worse case . For , in the event of its being thereafter dissatisfied with these or any worse incidents of its connection with the State , it would have no power either to abandon that connection , or to treat for new terms as a party able to accept or to refuse . This is the present law of establishment in Scotland , unchanged since 1843 ; and the principles I have quoted were laid down in great leading cases with cumulative emphasis and solemnity . But all of them were in themselves general statements of law , addressed to the constitutional question of Church independence , - a question which did not depend on the special matters of non-intrusion or Church extension , though they depended upon it . They were given as the ground , and they were the ground , of the innumerable decisions and orders of the court enforced against the Church . And they were intended to settle , and they did settle , what both parties knew and confessed to be the great constitutional question then in dependence . How opposed they are to the ancient theory held by the Church as to its independence I need not here say . But the law laid down long before May 1843 would have abundantly justified it even then in separating from the State , protesting that its constitutional liberties had been authoritatively subverted . Fortunately for the future of the country , it did otherwise . It appealed to the State itself , that is , to the Legislature and the Crown , against the decision of the judicial organs of the State . And it was only upon their neglect - and indeed rejection - of the Claim , Declaration , and Protest of 1842 , that the Free Church went out in 1843 . But when it did so , it combined the two considerations , of the authority of the Courts on the constitutional question , and the supereminent power of the Legislature , with great felicity , in its Protest , which ran "" Considering that the Legislature , by their rejection , etc. , ... have recognised and fixed the conditions of the Church Establishment , as hence-forward to subsist in Scotland , to be such as these have been pronounced and declared by the said Civil Courts , in their several recent decisions , in regard to matters spiritual and ecclesiastical . "" The one matter on which the Civil and Church Courts , otherwise so keenly opposed , were agreed , was this , that the claim of the Church was really one of independence - independence not merely of the Civil Courts , but of the State and Parliament . Therefore it became necessary for the Civil Courts , in enforcing their decrees against it , in matters ecclesiastical , to affirm its dependence upon both in the broad terms we have quoted . And therefore also the Church , in taking up its position in the Act of Assembly 1838 , affirming "" the independent jurisdiction , "" put it upon the ground that the "" power ecclesiastical flows immediately from God "" to the Church , and not through the mediation of the State or Parliament . But what probability was there that the Scottish Church could persuade the Legislature of Great Britain in 1842 , to affirm such an abstract proposition as this in regard to one of its Established Churches ? None whatever . Its only chance was that the Legislature might so far interfere as to prevent the enforcement of the orders and interdicts already based by the Court upon these general principles . In that case the Church could perhaps have honestly stayed in , as standing npon its own declaration of independence ; the denial of which by the Courts they would then have regarded as brutum fulmen , and no longer authoritative , because , at least virtually , disclaimed by the State . Even early in 1842 both parties were thus already agreed that the practical question must decide the constitutional question . Was the Church to obey , or was it not ? The Church made the most of its last hope in that massive and magnificent state-paper , the Claim , Declaration , and Protest of 1842 ; in which , while founding its jurisdiction not on law but on Gospel , and protesting that it was for maintaining the Headship of Christ and not of the State over the Church that it was called to sufifer , it laid at the same time great stress on the limited and civil jnrisdiction of the Court of Session , And while it enumerated here , as afterwards in its separating Protest , the long roll of cases in which the Court enforced the State's supremacy even in spiritualibus , - by which , "" no one function of the Church , "" "" and no one item mentioned by the laws as belonging peculiarly to its judgment , "" had been spared , - it passed over in silence the loud denials of Church independence upon which these encroachments were based . But what it did not omit was to affirm its own independence , and solemnly to "" declare "" to both Houses of Parliament and the Crown , that the Church could not in conscience obey or submit as the Court demanded , and that "" at the risk of losing the public advantages of an Establishment "" they "" must , as by God's grace they will , refuse to do so ; for , highly as they estimate these , they can not put them in competition with the inalienable liberties of a Church of Christ . "" The claim was rejected by the other great parties concerned with an equally fatal explicitness . Crown and Legislature declined to interfere ; and that not merely tacitly , which would have been abundantly enough . In the answer from the advisers of the Crown , ' and in the refusal of the House of Commons ' to entertain even a motion for enquiry , it was no doubt not concealed that they were zealous for the existence of Patronage , and knew the Church to be pledged against it . But in both of them the refusal was put explicitly upon the constitutional question stated by the Court , by the Assembly , and in the Claim of Rights , as the only one of chief importance ; and the legislative interference which all parties looked forward to was delayed in order , as the Prime Minister put it expressly in the House , that the pretensions of the Church to independence and co-ordinate jurisdiction might be first surrendered or crushed . I know not how a constitutional question such as the future relation of Church and State could be more solemnly and conclusively settled , than ( first ) by the authoritative and repeated utterances of the Supreme Courts , appealed against ( secondly ) by the National Church as fatal to its very existence , and ( lastly ) confirmed upon this appeal by the supreme power of the State as before all things necessary and right . And yet this was not all - not nearly all . It might have been a mere abstract question that was thus solemnly settled . But this abstract question was to be settled , as we have seen , - by the practical method of enforced obedience , and the constitutional disturbance attending it amounted to a long agony . Even before 1842 the Church and its Courts had solemnly protested that it could not obey the State in spiritualibus in the matters already enjoined it . And so during the eighteen months that followed , while it made its vain appeal to the Legislature , the mace of the law fell heavily and cruelly upon every part of the ecclesiastical body . In Perthshire , in Ayrshire , in Aberdeenshire , in every corner of the country , the principle of subjection to a civil statute in ecclesiastical matters was enforced by fines and interdicts , until the Church at last went out bruised in every quivering limb . But these sufferings - and even tbe fines and expenses which some of the houseless ministers had to pay , after being turned out of their livings - were not felt so much by the Church as the taunts which accompanied them . The Court of Session , in utterance as well as action , refused to tolerate even that interim refusal to obey while the Church was making its appeal to the Legislature . "" I wish , "" said Lord President Hope , speaking as the bead of the Court , "" to speak with all respect of the General Assembly , of which body I was for so long a period a member ; but if any other body of men , or if any individuals had done what they have done , I should feel constrained to designate their cpnduct as profligate . The Presbytery of Auchterarder came to this Court and pleaded here . Judgment went against them . The General Assembly sanctioned and directed an appeal to the House of Lords .... But the decision of the House of Lords affirmed the decision of this Court , and these same Church Courts absolutely refuse to give obedience to the judgment . To conduct like this I have already given its appropriate designation . In point of candour and fairness it is no better than the old shuffle , ' Odds I win , evens you lose . ' "" And this terrible imputatien of dishonesty , flung from the judgment-seat against those who should continue to eat the bread of the State , and yet refuse the legal conditions of establishment , was repeated more decorously again and again as the case went on . "" If these gentlemen , "" said President Hope in the second Auchterarder Case , "" wish to maintain the situation of what they call a Christian Church , they would be no better off than the Catholic Church , or the Episcopal Church , or the Burghers or Anti - Burghers ; but when they come to call themselves the Established Church , the Church of Scotland , what makes the Church of Scotland but the Law ? "" And the House of Lords was equally intolerant of men claiming to be free who remained in this law-made Church . "" It is fit , "" said Lord Brougham in the same case in the House of Lords , "" that these men at length learn the lesson of obedience to the tribunals which have been appointed over them ; a lesson which all others have long acquired , and which they , on learning it , should also practise . "" And this obedience , Lord Campbell went on immediately to explain , could not be evaded by those "" who continue members of the Establishment "" abandoning tbe temporalities to the State or the patron . Disestablishment was the only honest remedy . "" While the appellants remain members of the establishment , they are , in addition to their sacred character , public functionaries appointed and paid by the State , and they must perform the duties which the law of the land imposes on them . It is only a voluntary body , such as the Relief or Burgher Church in Scotland , self-founded and self-supported , that can say they will be entirely governed by their own rules . "" Now all these , whether we call them kindly suggestions or cruel taunts or statements of principle , came from the Supreme Courts as parts of their solemn judgments , and were authoritative . We need not therefore recall the far more violent attacks on the Church in the Legislature , the demand of the Moderate League , that the Government should choose which of the two parties was to remain in the Establishment , and the bitter inculpation of the Whig government by the Conservatives generally , and Lords Aberdeen and Brougham in particular , for its hesitation to enforce the new constitutional law . For the great strength of these hostile utterances during that last lingering year of the controversy , was that they were true - that the Church knew them to be true , and had made them part of its principles . The right of the State to fix its own conditions of establishment , whether those conditions be right or wrong , had been admitted in the most absolute way in the Church's Claim , Declaration , and Protest of 1842 , and is made the foundation of the Free Church Protest in 1843 . We , looking back , may be disposed to think that the denial of Church independence and the demand of subjection to Statute , affirmed by the Courts in and before 1842 , were final conditions of Establishment oven then , and that they might have come out before . But it is not for us harshly to judge Churchmen , who at the cost of uninterrupted taunts and insults , clung to the State till every method of appeal was exhausted - till , in fact ( as comes out so curiously in the Protest of 1843 ) , waiting in for a quarter of an hour longer had become practically and morally impossible . For thus it was that the constitutional question of subjection , now broadly separated from the previous one of patronage , and already decided by the Supreme Courts , was with due solemnity referred by the National Church to the Crown and Legislature , and was deliberately decided by the Legislature and the Crown . There are countries in which even this accumulation of reasons would not amount to reason f or revolution ; for in these lands the original independence of the Christian Church has faded out of the convictions of men . But in a country with such a history as Scotland , the Disruption was a necessity of conscience . It was not the less a memorable self-sacrifice . A quarter of an hour after it happened the news was brought to Lord Jeffrey as he sat in his room , and the old judge , springing from his seat , exclaimed , "" I am proud of my country ; there is not another upon earth where such a deed could have been done ! "" A quarter of a century after it happened Mr. Gladstone , speaking as Prime Minister in his place in Parliament , proclaimed that to the moral attitude of the new-born Church "" scarcely any word weaker or lower than that of majesty , is , according to the spirit of historical criticism , justly applicable . "" But the more that Scotland rocognises the deed of 1843 as flowing from her previous history and ancient convictions , the less will she be disposed to dwell upon it in any mood of transient exultation . Rather she will hear its voice at the close of the half-century as the same great Saga speaks it , - "" Wilt thou do the deed and repent it ? Thou had ' st better never been born . Wilt thou do the deed and exalt it ? Then thy praise shall be outworn . Thou shalt do the deed and abide it , and sit on thy throne on high , And look on to-day and to-morrow as those that never die ! "" ( William Morris' Sigurd the Volsung . ) III . But , in truth , the deed of 18th May , 1843 , is one which will never need to be repeated . What must in some form be repeated , and what may in many forms require to be imitated or improved upon - what , therefore , now deserves study not from Churchmen or Scotsmen alone - is the re-construction by which that deed was followed . For the reconstruction was the act of the people . "" Contrary to all anticipations , the people had forsaken the establishment in a much higher ratio as to numbers than the ministers ; and it would have required more than seven hundred churches to accommodate the congregations who were ready to attach themselves to the Free Church . "" Around us in the Highlands this side of the thing came out very strongly . Where the minister had resigned his living , the people followed him enthusiastically ; where he did not , they left him in a body . But in the Highlands , as much as in the Lowlands , an almost hopeless problem remained . In some places the people were numerous , but they were poor . In others they were a little better off , but they were few . But neither in the Highlands nor in the Lowlands had they been trained to act for themselves . It was a feudal country , and the natural leaders of the people - the chiefs in the north , like the lairds in the south - had in this matter failed them . Local self-government was not yet thought of . Voluntary parochial union had been evoked by Dr. Chalmers , and was one of the things now being crushed . But mere parochial union could not solve the problem how things were to be carried on upon a national scale , and for all time to come . In previous national efforts Scotsmen had the civil law of the nation behind thorn , obliging all citizens to religious union , and appropriating to the uses of the majority , in the name of their common country , the fruits and possessions of those who should refuse to obey . In the present ease that law was no longer at their back ; in so far as it survived , it worked now to enfeeble arid impoverish them . The experiment , whether a whole people could be banded together to work out by means of individual self-sacrifice one great common and permanent result , was to be tried under new conditions . And some of the conditions were not only new , but hard . For all over Scotland the congregations called to this problem were left houseless in one day . In one class of cases alone they earnestly attempted to save themselves . The Church Extension edifices had been raised chiefly , in some cases almost wholly , by the money of those who were now members of the Free Church , and the ministers officiating in them had been denied recognition by the Courts on the ground that they and their congregations were wholly a creation of the Church . But even these churches were now taken by the Courts from the Church which had erected them , and that on the paradoxical ground that they had been erected for the Church of the State . In south and north alike the congregations had thus to seek immediate shelter from the elements , as well as sites for more permanent homes of worship . But in south and north even sites for building were very often denied them . And this brought up , for the second time in this century , that inevitable Land Question which , in the previons generation , had been stirred in our Highlands by the bitterly remembered "" clearances . "" The amazing power which our law entrusts to private landholders , of excluding a whole community from purchasing a foot of ground in their own parish , or even their own county , came ont now for the first time in its intolerable extent . The clearances had sometimes swept out whole bodies or communities . "" I stood on the top of that hill when the evictions were going on , "" an old Sutherlandshire woman said to me , speaking of her youthful days , "" and I saw sixty cottages burning in the strath at one time . "" And I well remember the consternation in the Gaelic congregation to which in her age she belonged , when , one morning after 1843 , the announcement of an interdict drove them out from an ancient churchyard - a churchyard , too , distant half a mile from the parish church - amid whose moss-grown stones the people had met for many and many a sacrament before that mournful day . The preacher , who was that Sabbath to address four or five thousand Gaelic hearers , was Dr. John Macdonald of Ferintosh ; and he pointed ont , whother by way of defence or of aggravation , that the ground from which the people of the parish were so driven out was common and parochial property . The more usual case was that which happened , at almost the same time , to Dr. Thomas Guthrie of Edinburgh . In this case the Duke - Janet Fraser's Duke - was proprietor of the parish , and as landlord refused a site . The miserable people quietly withdrew to a waste spot of barren moor , and met there in the open air . The Duke's factor and agent instantly served an interdict on the trespassers , evicting them from even their open-air meeting on the waste . Henceforth they had no place on which to worship except the cross-roads on the public highway , and one Monday morning , after preaching to them there , Dr. Guthrie sat down to tell his experiences . "" Well wrapped up , I drove out yesterday morning to Canobie , the hills white with snow , the roads covered ankle deep in many places with slush , the wind high and cold , thick rain lashing on , and the Esk by our side all the way , roaring in the snowflood between bank and brae . We passed Johnnie Armstrong's Tower , yet strong even in its ruins , and after a drive of four miles , a turn of the road brought me in view of a scene which was overpowering , and would have brought the salt tears into the eyes of any man of common humanity . "" Dr. Guthrie's driver broke into sobs as he explained that the five hundred people waiting under some leafless trees on the turnpike road were the congregation who bad been refused first a site to build , and then a site to stand upon ; and who now waited on for hours under the driving rain till they had sung their last psalm on that fierce February day . It was not there only . So late as 1847 there were still thirty-one cases in Scotland in which sites were absolutely refused ; besides many others in which very inconvenient and humiliating places were deliberately offered - offered , toe , to tenants who frequently had the threat of eviction held over them if they ventured to build even upon these . Now what was the problem which the laymen of this Scottish Church , itself universally left houseless , had first of all to face ? It was not their own support , but that of their ministers and of many besides . The income of every Free Church minister ceased at Whitsunday , 1843 , and at the same date ceased his tenancy of the "" manse "" or parsonage , with its "" glebe "" of four acres of parochial ground . But along with them one hundred and thirty "" probationers , "" or preachers waiting for appointments , had , on the same day , thrown up all their prospects . The foreign missionaries sent out to India . , with Dr. Duff at their head , had likewise , without exception , sent in their adherence to the disendowed community . An old statute obliged all teachers , within or without the Universities , to be members of the Establishment , and the theological professors who , like Dr. Chalmers , had moved with the Church , were by this enactment obliged to resign their posts . A more cruel case remained . Every parish schoolmaster throughout Scotland who adhered to the Church going out was ejected from his small house , and deprived of his income . Ministers , missionaries , probationers , schoolmasters , and professors were in a day reduced to beggary . A small army of educated men , with their families , were left destitute and houseless , and thrown upon the congregations whose own necessities we have seen . In the days to come many hard questions will have to be dealt with in our own and other lands . The rights of labour , the claims of the poor , the division of the soil , the education of the young , the home-rule of our young empires , and the self-support of the Church - all these will bring round many a crisis in many a family of Western man . But can any of them ever present a harder problem than our fathers in Scotland had that day to solve ? Yet it was done - by Christian enthusiasm , no doubt . But that enthusiasm found or made fit channels for its flow . And among these we may mention first what is familiar in Scotland , but most strikes the observer outside . "" The Kirk , "" Sir Roundell Palmer told the House of Commons in 1869 , "" had her Kirk Sessions , her Presbyteries , her Synods , her General Assemblies , each step of self-government rising above the other , so that she had been well exercised in the whole art and power of self-government , self-legislation , and self-expansion , no State power coming in to prevent her Syneds from meeting . There the great men who afterwards became the leaders in the Free Church movement had as much liberty of speech as we have in this place . There they formed their parties ; there they organised their system ; there they collected together such a power and bond of moral public opinion as enabled them to go forth triumphantly , even when leaving all which in this world they possessed . "" It is a lesson for us all . For in Scotland , as elsewhere , there are now men who hate the whole system of Parliamentarism , in Church and State alike ; men who would rather shelter under any form of epicurean despotism than take their share of the risks and responsibilities of self-government . But that system has great tasks still to accomplish in the future , and there is no surer omen of its victory in these than that under it , in 1843 , the terrible crisis of Disestablishment was carried through . It was carried through , indeed , with scarcely any constitutional change . The Church remained the same , except as now founded on its Protest for freedom . The Presbyteries which had sat the week before as Courts of the Church of Scotland established , sat this week again - with frightful gaps and rents no doubt - but as Courts of the same Church unestablished . Legislation was held now , as before , to belong to its General Assembly , with consent of the Presbyteries ; for the refusal of the State to permit this , the Church had met by the last remedy . And none of these Church Courts are mere "" convocations of the clergy ; "" in all of them the representative layman , elected by the whole members of the congregation , decides upon the most sacred matters , with a vote equal to that of the Churchman at his side . And as with "" self government "" and "" self-legislation , "" so with the third function assigned to our classic hierarchy by Lord Selborne - "" self-expansion . "" Its rights of creating new congregations , recognising new ministers , and incorporating with itself other religious bodies - all repressed with fines and prohibitions only a few months before - were now exercised freely . It was all within the common law of Presbyterianism - a code of authoritative principles , whose breadth , forgotten so long as our branch of the system flowed in a merely national and statutory channel , was soon to be restored to the view of all in the ecumenical assemblies or Councils of the communion . But the feature in the new organisation of most interest , not so much in the past as for the future of our own and other lands , was what Dr. Chalmers , with his usual passion for sonorous phraseology , called a Sustentation Fund . ' It was , in truth , a new and great experiment in altruism or Christian solidarity . The local enthusiasm which had everywhere arisen of course received fit embodiment . Long before the Disruption Dr. Chalmers had given forth as his watchword , "" Organise , organise , organise ! "" And while in response congregational associations were everywhere instituted , and great numbers of women collectors gathered weekly the contributions of the faithful , the old order of deacons was revived for what was supposed to have been in apostolic times their exclusive function - the receiving and administering of the monies of the local church . But through all these organisations there passed the breath of one new life , when , in autumn 1842 , it was proposed that they should no longer retain their own contributions for their separate benefit , hut should send the mass of them on to one central fund for the Church as a whole , to be again divided equally from that centre among all the ministers . The idea was almost new then , but in that time of common suffering it commended itself irresistibly ; and it has ever since been acted on to an extraordinary extent . Some Free Church congregations send to the Sustentation Fund annually from £ 1,000 to £ 3,000 ; others in poorer districts can only send from £ 10 to £ 50 . But the small and the large contribution go alike into the common purse , and , as the time of annual division comes round , the minister of the poorer congregation receives from it the same amount as the minister of the greater - no less , and no more . This national voluntaryism , as Dr. Chalmers pointed out , really becomes an establishment of the Church from its own resources , and while it "" coincides in principle "" with that former method of support , it is free from some of its obvious disadvantages . In particular , it leaves to the Church itself the more complicated adjustment of the remaining question , how the salary from this equal dividend may be locally added to . For , as Dr. Chalmers originally urged , mere equality would not be justice where one minister with city burdens was giving up a stipend of £ 1,000 a year , and another in the country lost only £ 200 . Besides , it is not even desirable that the minister of a congregation , however he may be protected by the Central Fund from the possibility of being starved out , should be removed from the stimulus which most other workers have in the prospect of a larger income for successful work . How all this was met by the institution of congregational supplements , - a variable accretion of local voluntaryism , added on to the solid nucleus of the Church's own establishment in the Sustentation Fund ; - and how the two combined have , through many years of not yet ended experiment , become a backbone to the Free Church ( a back bone whose value seems to be owing nearly equally to its firmness and its flexibility ) , we need not here inquire . ' What is important to notice is , that the idea which it embodies , which men have new come to speak of as a kind of national altruism , pressed outwards at the same time in many other directions , and beyond all merely patriotic bounds . We have seen the houselessness of the congregations in every county throughout the hard north . But a hundred thousand pounds were subscribed for building even before the Disruption day dawned , and within the first year five hundred churches were erected . Then came the effort necessary to provide manses or pastorages for the ministers . And then it was recollected that the evicted schoolmasters and their children were homeless too . Yet all this concerned no city Scotsman who doubted whether he were his brother's keeper , and who reflected that the raising of such edifices implied a certain obligation in all time coming to those for whom they were built . Almost the only enterprise indeed , in which the centres were not able to sacrifice themselves for those outside , was the raising of the three colleges - two of them soon permanently endowed by private munificence , and the third now , with all its imperfections , the most fully equipped theological institute in theological Scotland . But the impulse was one which , in its own nature , could not be restricted to self-regarding or self-conserving effort . All the missionaries had joined the Church in its conflict , and , as might be expected , all now fulfilled their pledge . But the disestablished Church , instead of recalling them , commenced to double , and more than double , the sum previously sent out to maintain them . Missions to spread Christianity among the Jews followed , and missions to fan the flame of evangelism in Catholic countries . New missions to colonies , where Scotsmen so abound , could scarcely be called outside enterprises ; and these bring us back to the special funds instituted for the Highlands and Islands , and to the new and great enterprise of a Home Mission , partly consisting of Extension Charges throughout the country , and partly of Territorial Charges , "" excavated , "" to use Dr. Chalmers' word , in our great towns . For instead of gradually abandoning the stations whose support was forced upon it in 1843 by the necessities of its local adherents , the pastoral charges of the Free Church have by this time nearly doubled . In view of the openings which the future is certain to bring to other communities , not necessarily in similar forms , nor , indeed , in religious relations at all , the study of some of these various channels and moulds as they were filled at once by one glowing enthusiasm , will always be important . But for my purposes , and with a view to the suggestion that in the future the Free Church too may hopefully hear itself called to a renewal of self-sacrifice , and that not in one form but in many , it is well to pause upon the results of the half-century . Three years before its close the Christian givings of this fragment of a poor country , stripped in one day to the very bone , had already amounted to more than twenty millions . Yet during the first half of the half-century they reached only about eight millions . From time to time the figures have varied , as represented by the following , which gives the amount for the opening year of each of its decades 1843 .... £ 363,871 1853 .... £ 289,670 1863 .... £ 343,626 1873 .... £ 511,084 1883 .... £ 628,222 The leap to the higher platform , which is here so visible at one point , happened , strange to say , just about the time when the last of the old Disruption leaders was taken away , and the glory of the separate communion they formed might seem to have departed . But , in truth , it happened in accordance with all the deeper instincts of history - at the very time when that communion announced a resolve to sacrifice its long-prized separation , to refuse the bribe of re-establishment , and to claim henceforward part in the whole burdens of our country's future . And the result was in no respect strange . For the future of a country is to its Church "" such a burden as wings are to a bird . "" The Free Church and its Sustentation Fund embody ideas important for Presbyterianism , and even for Congregationalism , in America and our Colonies and many a distant hand . But their first duty is to their own country . And it seems to me that the time has at last come when the finance and other schemes of the Church of 1843 may frankly assume the aspect of provisional and experimental scaffolding - scaffolding in whose construction those now without should be consulted or considered as much as those within , because the Building which already rises behind it is one in which all Scottish Presbyterians have a right to dwell . From "" Studies in Scottish History "" by A. T aylor Innes , Hodder and Stoughton , London 1892 ."	Opinion/Argumentation
1103	"Queensland ( abbreviated as QLD ) is the second-largest and third-most-populous state in the Commonwealth of Australia . Situated in the north-east of the country , it is bordered by the Northern Territory , South Australia and New South Wales to the west , south-west and south respectively . To the east , Queensland is bordered by the Coral Sea and Pacific Ocean . Queensland has a population of 4,750,500 , concentrated along the coast and particularly in the state's South East . The state is the world's sixth largest sub-national entity , with an area of 1,852,642 km 2 . The capital and largest city in the state is Brisbane , Australia's third largest city . Often referred to as the "" Sunshine State "" , Queensland is home to 10 of Australia's 30 largest cities and is the nation's third largest economy . Tourism in the state , fuelled largely by its warm tropical climate , is a major industry . The history of Queensland spans thousands of years , encompassing both a lengthy indigenous presence , as well as the eventful times of post-European settlement . The north-eastern Australian region was explored by Dutch , Spaniards and French navigators before being encountered by Lieutenant James Cook in 1770 . The state has witnessed frontier warfare between European settlers and Indigenous inhabitants ( which did not result in any settlement or treaty ) , as well as the exploitation of cheap Kanaka labour sourced from the South Pacific through a form of forced recruitment known at the time as "" blackbirding "" . The Australian Labor Party has its origin as a formal organisation in Queensland and the town of Barcaldine is the symbolic birthplace of the party . [ 10 ] June 2009 marked the 150th anniversary of its creation as a separate colony from New South Wales . [ 11 ] A rare record of early settler life in north Queensland can be seen in a set of ten photographic glass plates taken in the 1860s by Richard Daintree , in the collection of the National Museum of Australia . [ 12 ] The Aboriginal occupation of Queensland is thought to predate 50,000 BC , likely via boat or land bridge across Torres Strait , and became divided into over 90 different language groups . During the last ice age Queensland's landscape became more arid and largely desolate , making food and other supplies scarce . This led to the world's first seed-grinding technology . Warming again made the land hospitable , which brought high rainfall along the eastern coast , stimulating the growth of the state's tropical rainforests . [ 13 ] In February 1606 , Dutch navigator Willem Janszoon landed near the site of what is now Weipa , on the western shore of Cape York . This was the first recorded landing of a European in Australia , and it also marked the first reported contact between European and Aboriginal Australian people . [ 13 ] The region was also explored by French and Spaniards explorers ( commanded by Louis Antoine de Bougainville and Luís Vaez de Torres , respectively ) prior to the arrival of Lieutenant James Cook in 1770 . Cook claimed the east coast under instruction from King George III of the United Kingdom on 22 August 1770 at Possession Island , naming Eastern Australia , including Queensland , ' New South Wales ' . [ 14 ] The Aboriginal population declined significantly after a smallpox epidemic during the late 18th century . [ 15 ] ( There has been controversy regarding the origins of smallpox in Australia ; while many sources have claimed that it originated with British settlers , this theory has been contradicted by scientific evidence . [ 16 ] [ 17 ] [ 18 ] There is circumstantial evidence that Macassan mariners visiting Arnhem Land introduced smallpox to Australia . [ 17 ] ) In 1823 , John Oxley , a British explorer , sailed north from what is now Sydney to scout possible penal colony sites in Gladstone ( then Port Curtis ) and Moreton Bay . At Moreton Bay , he found the Brisbane River . He returned in 1824 and established a settlement at what is now Redcliffe . The settlement , initially known as Edenglassie , was then transferred to the current location of the Brisbane city centre . Edmund Lockyer discovered outcrops of coal along the banks of the upper Brisbane River in 1825 . [ 19 ] In 1839 transportation of convicts was ceased , culminating in the closure of the Brisbane penal settlement . In 1842 free settlement was permitted . In 1847 , the Port of Maryborough was opened as a wool port . The first free immigrant ship to arrive in Moreton Bay was the Artemisia , in 1848 . In 1857 , Queensland's first lighthouse was built at Cape Moreton . Fighting between Burke and Wills ' s supply party and Indigenous Australians at Bulla in 1861 A war , sometimes called a "" war of extermination "" [ citation needed ] , erupted between Aborigines and settlers in colonial Queensland [ citation needed ] . The Frontier War was notable for being the most bloody in Australia [ citation needed ] , perhaps due to Queensland's larger pre-contact indigenous population when compared to the other Australian colonies . About 1,500 European settlers and their allies ( consisting of Chinese , Aboriginal and Melanesian assistants ) [ citation needed ] , were killed in frontier skirmishes during the nineteenth century . [ citation needed ] Casualties among the Aboriginal people may have exceeded 30,000 . [ citation needed ] The "" Native Police Force "" , employed by the Queensland government , was key in the oppression of the indigenous people . [ 20 ] On 27 October 1857 , aborigines of Martha Fraser's Hornet Bank station on the Dawson River killed eleven Europeans . This was the largest massacre of Australian colonists by aborigines . [ 21 ] [ 22 ] [ 23 ] [ 24 ] One author [ 25 ] estimates 24,000 Aboriginal men , women and children died at the hands of the Native Police in colonial Queensland between 1859 and 1897 alone . A public meeting was held in 1851 to consider the proposed separation of Queensland from New South Wales . On 6 June 1859 , Queen Victoria signed Letters Patent to form the separate colony of what is now Queensland . Brisbane was appointed as the capital city . On 10 December 1859 , a proclamation was read by British author George Bowen , whereby Queensland was formally separated from the state of New South Wales . [ 26 ] As a result , Bowen became the first Governor of Queensland . On 22 May 1860 the first Queensland election was held and Robert Herbert , Bowen's private secretary , was appointed as the first Premier of Queensland . Queensland also became the first Australian colony to establish its own parliament rather than spending time as a Crown Colony . In 1865 , the first rail line in the state opened between Ipswich and Grandchester . Queensland's economy expanded rapidly in 1867 after James Nash discovered gold on the Mary River near the town of Gympie , sparking a gold rush . While still significant , they were on a much smaller scale than the gold rushes of Victoria and New South Wales . During the period from the 1860s till the early 20th century , many labourers , known at the time as Kanakas , were brought to Queensland from neighbouring Pacific Island nations to work in the state's sugar cane fields . Some of these people had been kidnapped under a process known as blackbirding or press ganging , and their employment conditions amounted to indentured labour or even slavery . During the Australian federation of 1901 , the White Australia policy came into effect , which saw all foreign workers in Australia deported under the Pacific Island Labourers Act of 1901 , which saw the Pacific Islander population of the state decrease rapidly . [ 27 ] On 1 January 1901 , Australia was federated following a proclamation by Queen Victoria . During this time , Queensland had a population of half a million people . Brisbane was subsequently proclaimed a city in 1902 . In 1905 , women voted in state elections for the first time , and the University of Queensland was established in 1909 . In 1911 , The first alternative treatments for polio were pioneered in Queensland and remain in use across the world today . Australia's first major airline , Qantas , was founded in 1920 to serve outback Queensland . In 1922 , Queensland abolished the Upper House , becoming the only state parliament in Australia to have one house . In 1935 , cane toads were deliberately introduced to Queensland from Hawaii in a poorly-thought-out and unsuccessful attempt to reduce the number of French's cane and greyback cane beetles that were destroying the roots of sugar cane plants , which are integral to Queensland's economy . In 1962 , the first commercial production of oil in Queensland and Australia began at Moonie . The humid climate – regulated by the availability of air conditioning – saw Queensland become a more accommodating place to work and live for Australian migrants . [ 29 ] To this day , it is one of Australia's economic powerhouses and the third most populous state in the country . In 2009 , Queensland celebrated Q150 , its 150th anniversary as an independent colony and state . [ 30 ] The Queensland government and other Queensland organisations commemorated the occasion with many events and publications , including the announcement of the top 150 icons of Queensland by the Queensland Premier Anna Bligh , [ 31 ] [ 32 ] and the creation of monuments at significant survey points in Queensland's history to honour the many early explorer / surveyors who mapped the state . [ 33 ] [ 34 ] Queensland borders the Torres Strait to the north , with Boigu Island off the coast of New Guinea representing the absolute northern extreme of its territory . The triangular Cape York Peninsula , which points toward New Guinea , is the northernmost part of the state's mainland . West of the peninsula's tip , northern Queensland is bordered by the Gulf of Carpentaria , while the Coral Sea , an arm of the Pacific Ocean , borders Queensland to the east . To the west , Queensland is bordered by the Northern Territory , at the 138 ° E longitude , and to the southwest by the northeastern corner of South Australia . Because of its size , there is significant variation in climate across the state . Low rainfall and hot humid summers are typical for the inland and west , a monsoonal "" wet "" season in the far north , and warm , temperate conditions along the coastal strip . Elevated areas in the south-east inland can experience temperatures well below freezing in mid-winter . The climate of the coastal strip is influenced by warm ocean waters , keeping the region free from extremes of temperature and providing moisture for rainfall . [ 35 ] Natural disasters are often a threat in Queensland ; severe tropical cyclones can impact the coast and cause severe damage , [ 36 ] with recent examples including Larry , Yasi and Ita . Flooding from rain-bearing systems can also be severe and can occur anywhere in Queensland . One of the deadliest and most damaging floods in the history of the state occurred in early 2011 . [ 37 ] Droughts and bushfires can also occur ; however , the latter are generally less severe than those that occur in southern states . Severe springtime thunderstorms generally affect the south-east and inland of the state and can bring damaging winds , torrential rain , large hail and even tornadoes . [ 38 ] The strongest tornado ever recorded in Australia occurred in Queensland near Bundaberg . [ 39 ] There are five predominant climatic zones in Queensland , [ 40 ] based on temperature and humidity : Dickson's Inlet , Port Douglas , Queensland during the dry season However , most of the Queensland populace experience two weather seasons : a "" winter "" period of mild to warm temperatures and minimal rainfall , and a sultry summer period of hot , sticky temperatures and higher levels of rainfall . The coastal far north of the state is the wettest place in Australia , with Mount Bellenden Ker , south of Cairns , holding many Australian rainfall records with its annual average rainfall of over 8 metres . [ 41 ] It is not uncommon for locations in this area to receive more rain in 24 hours during the wet season than the majority of Queensland receives in a year . Snow is rare in Queensland , although it does fall with some regularity along the far southern border with New South Wales , predominantly in the Stanthorpe district although on rare occasions further north and west . The most northerly recorded snow in Australia occurred near Mackay ; however , this was exceptional . [ 42 ] The annual mean statistics [ 43 ] for some Queensland centres are shown below : The highest official maximum temperature recorded in the state was 49.5 ° C ( 121 . 1 ° F ) at Birdsville Police Station on 24 December 1972 , [ 48 ] although the Moderate-Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer ( MODIS ) on NASA's Aqua satellite measured a ground surface temperature of 69.3 ° C ( 156 . 7 ° F ) . This temperature was the hottest value worldwide measured by MODIS in 2003 . [ 49 ] Queensland has the highest average maximums of any Australian state , and Toowoomba , Stanthorpe , Hervey Bay , Mackay , Atherton , Weipa and Thursday Island are the only large population centres not to have recorded a temperature above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) . The lowest minimum temperature is − 10 . 6 ° C ( 12 . 9 ° F ) at Stanthorpe on 23 June 1961 and at The Hermitage ( near Warwick ) on 12 July 1965 . [ 50 ] Temperatures below 0 ° C ( 32 ° F ) are , however , generally uncommon over the majority of populated Queensland . State capital and most populous city , Brisbane , located in southeast Queensland . Queensland has a less centralised population than other states , with significant populations in regional cities such as Townsville ( above ) . Queensland is less centralised than most other Australian states , with 50 % of the population living outside the state capital , and 25 % living outside the South East Queensland urban agglomeration . Queensland is home to many regional cities , the most populous being the Gold Coast , the Sunshine Coast , Townsville , Cairns , Toowoomba , Mackay , Rockhampton and Bundaberg . For decades , Queensland has consistently been the fastest growing state in Australia , while Western Australia has grown faster in the 2010s . [ 53 ] At its peak growth in 2007 , it was estimated that over 1,500 people moved to the state per week including 1,000 to the southern part of the state alone . [ 54 ] According to the 2011 Census , principal religious affiliations in Queensland are distributed as follows : [ 55 ] Sugar cane fields south of Childers . Queensland's climate is ideal for growing the crop . In the 1880s and 1890s , sea ports were established on the coast , adjacent to the mouth of the Fitzroy River . Broadmount was on the northern side and Port Alma on the south . Railways were subsequently constructed to carry goods to the wharves at these locations , the railway to Broadmount opening on 1 January 1898 and the line to Port Alma opened on 16 October 1911 . Maintenance on the Broadmount line ceased in August 1929 . The following month , the wharf caught fire and the line was effectively closed in July 1930 . The line to Port Alma closed on 15 October 1986 . [ 56 ] Queensland's economy has enjoyed a boom in the tourism and mining industries over the past 20 years . A sizeable influx of interstate and overseas migrants , large amounts of federal government investment , increased mining of vast mineral deposits and an expanding aerospace sector have contributed to the state's economic growth . The 2008 – 09 saw the expansion slow to just 0.8 % , the state's worst performance in 18 years . [ 57 ] Between 1992 and 2002 , the growth in the Gross State Product of Queensland outperformed that of all the other states and territories . In that period Queensland's GSP grew 5.0 % each year , while growth in Australia's Gross Domestic Product ( GDP ) rose on average 3.9 % each year . Queensland's contribution to the Australian GDP increased by 10.4 % in that period , one of only three states to do so . [ 58 ] In 2003 Brisbane had the lowest cost of living of all Australia's capital cities . In late 2005 Brisbane was the third most expensive capital for housing after Sydney and Canberra and just ahead of Melbourne by $ 15 , 000 . Primary industries include : bananas , pineapples , peanuts , a wide variety of other tropical and temperate fruit and vegetables , grain crops , wineries , cattle raising , cotton , sugar cane , wool and a mining industry including bauxite , coal , silver , lead , zinc , gold , and copper . Secondary industries are mostly further processing of the above-mentioned primary produce . For example , bauxite is shipped by sea from Weipa and converted to alumina at Gladstone . [ 59 ] There is also copper refining and the refining of sugar cane to sugar at a number of mills along the eastern coastline . Major tertiary industries are the retail trade and tourism . Interests in Crown land in Queensland are primarily regulated by the Land Act 1994 . [ 60 ] [ 61 ] Summer at Burleigh Heads beach with the Gold Coast skyline in the distance . Gold Coast beaches are world-renowned . Tourism is Queensland's leading tertiary industry with millions of interstate and overseas visitors flocking to the Sunshine State each year . The industry generates $ 4 . 0 billion annually , accounting for 4.5 % of Queensland's GSP . [ 62 ] Queensland is a state of many landscapes which range from sunny tropical coastal areas , lush rainforests to dry inland areas and temperate highland ranges . Cairns is renowned as the "" Gateway to the Barrier Reef "" and the heritage listed Daintree Rainforests . The Gold Coast of Queensland is also sometimes referred to as "" Australia's Theme Park Capital "" , with five major amusement parks . These are Dreamworld , Movie World , Sea World , Wet ' n ' Wild and WhiteWater World . Accommodation in Queensland caters for nearly 22 % of the total expenditure , followed by restaurants / meals ( 15 % ) , airfares ( 11 % ) , fuel ( 11 % ) and shopping / gifts ( 11 % ) . [ 66 ] Queensland is served by a number of National Highways and , particularly in South East Queensland , motorways such as the M1 . The Department of Transport & Main Roads oversees the development and operation of main roads and public transport , including taxis and local aviation . South East Queensland has an integrated public transport system operated by TransLink , which provides services bus , rail , light rail and ferry services through contracted bus , ferry and light rail operators and Queensland Rail . The TransLink network operates a fare system which allows a single ticket to be used across all modes for the same price irrespective of the number of transfers made on the trip . Regional bus and long-distance rail services are also provided throughout the State . Local bus services are also available in most regional centres . Executive authority is vested in the Governor , who represents and is appointed by Elizabeth II , Queen of Australia , Queen's Counsel on the advice of the Premier . The current governor is His Excellency , The Hon. Paul de Jersey , AC . The head of government is the Premier , who is appointed by the Governor but must have the support of the Legislative Assembly . The current Premier is Annastacia Palaszczuk of the Labor Party . Other ministers , forming the Executive Council , are appointed by the governor from among the members of the Legislative Assembly on the Premier's recommendation . Parliament House , Brisbane ( photo taken in 2003 ) The Queensland Parliament or the Legislative Assembly , is unicameral . It is the only Australian state with a unicameral legislature . A bicameral system existed until 1922 , when the Legislative Council was abolished by the Labor members ' "" suicide squad "" , so called because they were appointed for the purpose of voting to abolish their own offices . [ 67 ] The Parliament is housed in the 19th century Parliament House and 20th century Parliamentary Annexe in Brisbane . The state's politics are traditionally regarded as being conservative relative to other states . [ 68 ] [ 69 ] [ 70 ] [ 71 ] [ 72 ] The judicial system of Queensland consists of the Supreme Court and the District Court , established by the Constitution of Queensland , and various other courts and tribunals established by ordinary Acts of the Queensland Parliament . In 2001 Queensland adopted a new codified constitution , repealing most of the assorted Acts of Parliament that had previously made up the constitution . The new constitution took effect on 6 June 2002 , the anniversary of the formation of the colony of Queensland by the signing of Letters patent by Queen Victoria in 1859 . Local government is the mechanism by which towns and districts can manage their own affairs to the extent permitted by the Local Government Act 1993 – 2007 . Queensland is divided into 73 local government areas which may be called Cities , Towns , Shires or Regions . [ 73 ] Each area has a council which is responsible for providing a range of public services and utilities , and derives its income from both rates and charges on resident ratepayers , and grants and subsidies from the State and Commonwealth governments . [ 74 ] The state's first university , The University of Queensland , was established in 1909 . It was moved to St Lucia in 1945 , where it remains today . The University of Queensland ranks amongst the top 100 universities in several global rankings . The state of Queensland is represented in all of Australia's national sporting competitions and is also host to a number of domestic and international sporting events . The most popular winter and summer team sports are Rugby league , Rugby union and cricket , respectively . Rugby league ' s annual State of Origin series is a major event in the Queensland sporting calendar , with the Queensland Maroons in 2013 winning a record eighth series in a row . The Brisbane Broncos are the state's most successful team of any sport , having won 3 premierships in the NRL rugby league era and 6 in total during their 23-year existence . The Brisbane Broncos participated in the 2015 NRL Grand Final losing to the North Queensland Cowboys 17 – 16 in extra time , claiming their first premiership in its history . It is considered one of the greatest Grand Finals in NRL history . The other two NRL teams in Queensland are the North Queensland Cowboys and Gold Coast Titans . Queensland's dominance is not restricted to rugby league . The early part of this century saw the AFL's Brisbane Lions claim a hat-trick of premierships between 2001 and 2003 inclusive , whilst in soccer , Brisbane Roar FC won back to back A-League titles in the 2010 / 11 and 2011 / 12 season , and also set an Australian sporting record of 36 consecutive games unbeaten . Just four years after being branded "" the joke of rugby union "" , the Queensland Reds won its first Super Rugby title in July 2011 . In netball the Queensland Firebirds went undefeated in the 2011 season as they went on to win the Grand Final . Swimming is also a popular sport in Queensland , with a majority of Australian team members and international medalists hailing from the state . At the 2008 Summer Olympics , Queensland swimmers won all six of Australia's gold medals , all swimmers on Australia's three female ( finals ) relays teams were from Queensland , two of which won gold . ^ Dortch , C.E. and Hesp , P.A. 1994 . "" Rottnest Island artifacts and palaeosols in the context of Greater Swan Region prehistory "" ( Journal of the Royal Society of Western Australia 77 : 23 – 32 ) ^ "" Archived copy "" . Archived from the original on 13 October 2007 . Retrieved 13 October 2007 . CS1 maint : Unfit url ( link ) ^ a b A History of Queensland by Raymond Evans , Cambridge University Press , 2007 ISBN 978-0-521-87692-6 ^ European discovery and the colonisation of Australia culture . gov . au "" Archived copy "" . Archived from the original on 16 February 2011 . Retrieved 24 February 2014 . ^ Cumpston , JHL ( 1914 ) . The History of Small-Pox in Australia 1788 – 1908 . Melbourne : Australian Government Printer . ^ a b Campbell , Judy ; 2002 , Invisible Invaders : Smallpox and Other Diseases in Aboriginal Australia 1780 – 1880 , Carlton , Melbourne University Press , pp60 – 2 , 80 – 1 , 194 – 6 , 201 , 216 – 7 ^ Willis , H.A. ( 2011 ) . "" Bringing Smallpox with the First Fleet "" . Quadrant ( Sydney ) . 55 ( 7 – 8 ) : 2 . ISSN 0033-5002 . ^ Book : Reid , Gordon : A Nest of Hornets : The Massacre of the Fraser family at Hornet Bank Station , Central Queensland , 1857 , and related events , Melbourne 1982 . ^ R Evans , quoted in T Bottoms ( 2013 ) Conspiracy of Silence : Queensland's frontier killing times , Allen & Unwin , p. 181 ^ "" Q150 Timeline "" . Queensland Treasury . Retrieved 28 October 2011 . ^ "" Tornadoes "" . Bureau of Meteorology . Archived from the original on 17 March 2009 . Retrieved 6 April 2008 . ^ "" Gladstone "" . Comalco.com . Rio Tinto Aluminium . Archived from the original on 17 August 2009 . Retrieved 9 March 2016 . ^ Lucy Cradduck and Andrea Blake , Dealing with unique interests in Crown Land : A Queensland perspective , 2010 . [ 1 ] ^ Land Act 1994 , Long title An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the administration and management of non-freehold land and deeds of grant in trust and the creation of freehold land , and for related purposes [ 2 ] ^ George Megalogenis , "" The Green and the Grey "" , Quarterly Essay , Vol. 40 , 2010 , p69 . ^ "" Rates and valuations "" . Queensland : Department of Local Government , Sport and Recreation . 26 July 2007 . Retrieved 5 April 2008 ."	Information/Explanation
486	CENTRE FOR CREATIVE AND PERFORMING ARTS LITERARY FESTIVAL SPRING 2004 All events begin at 7 p. m . in Lecture Theatre 1 at UEA Wednesday 4 February TOBIAS WOLFF The Barracks Thief , This Boy's Life , Old School Monday 16 February CAROLINE MOOREHEAD Iris Origo : Marchesa Val D ' Orcia , Martha Gellhorn : A Life Wednesday 10 March RAGEH OMAAR Revolution Day Wednesday 31 March ALAIN DE BOTTON The Romantic Movement , The Art of Travel , Status Anxiety Thursday 6 May MONICA ALI Brick Lane Wednesday 12 May MICHAEL HOLROYD Lytton Strachey , Basil Street Blues , Mosaic Wednesday 26 May JOHN SIMPSON News from No Man's Land , The War Against Saddam Wednesday 2nd June NIALL FERGUSON Empire : How Britain Made the Modern World , Colossus : The Costs and Benefits of the New American Empire Season Tickets £ 30 ( students and concessions £ 18 ) Individual Tickets £ 5 ( students and concessions £ 3 ) ( Proof of eligibility for concessions will be required ) All tickets available in advance from the Box Office sited in Union House , UEA , Norwich NR4 7TJ Open 10 a . m . - 5 p. m . weekdays Telephone 01603 508050 ( credit and debit card payments are subject to a booking fee ) By Post : Box Office , Union House , UEA , Norwich NR4 7TJ ( cheques payable to SUS ( E. A. ) Ltd. Please enclose stamped addressed envelope . TOBIAS WOLFF is the author of three collections of stories . He won the 1984 PEN / Faulkner Award for his novella The Barracks Thief . His 1989 prize-winning memoir , This Boy's Life , which was made into a film starring Robert de Niro and Leonardo di Caprio , was followed in 1994 by In Pharaoh's Army : Memories of the Lost War . His new book , Old School , will be published in January 2004 . He is currently Director of the Creative Writing Program at Stanford University in the US . CAROLINE MOOREHEAD is the biographer of Bertrand Russell , Freya Stark , Over the Rim of the World , and Iris Origo , Iris Origo : Marchesa of Val D ' Orcia . She is well known for her work in the sphere of human rights , and has written a history of the International Committee of the Red Cross . Her most recent book , Martha Gellhorn : A Life , was published in Autumn 2003 . RAGEH OMAAR began his journalistic career in the Africa service of the BBC World Service . In 2000 he was awarded a Prix Bayeux award for his coverage of the Ethiopia-Eritrea War , and from 2001 to 2003 he was BBC TV News Africa correspondent , based in Johannesburg . He won an EMMA award for best TV journalist in 2002 and 2003 . His book , Revolution Day will be published in March 2004 . ALAIN DE BOTTON is the author of three novels : Essays in Love , The Romantic Movement and Kiss & Tell and four works of non-fiction including : How Proust Can Change Your Life , The Consolations of Philosophy and The Art of Travel . His new book , Status Anxiety , will be published in April 2004 , and will be accompanied by a Channel 4 television series . MONICA ALI was born in Dhaka , Bangladesh and as an infant moved to the north of England with her family . She studied politics , philosophy and economics at Oxford University . Her first novel , Brick Lane , set in the Asian community in London's East End , was met with great critical acclaim . She was included on the highly prestigious Granta list of twenty Best of Young British Writers before the book was published . MICHAEL HOLROYD's best-selling biographies , Lytton Strachey ( which was made into an award-winning film called Carrington ) , Augustus John , and Bernard Shaw , have won international acclaim . He was awarded the CBE in 1989 . A former chairman of the Society of Authors and Book Trust , and former President of English PEN , he is currently President of the Royal Society of Literature . His autobiography , Basil Street Blues , was published to great acclaim in 2000 . A companion volume , Mosaic , will be published in March 2004 . JOHN SIMPSON became a sub-editor in the BBC's Radio Newsroom in his mid-twenties . He was later a political editor before becoming Editor of the BBC's World Affairs Unit . He has twice been the Royal Television Society's Journalist of the Year . He is the author of Strange Places , Questionable People , A Mad World My Masters : Tales from a Traveller's Life and News From No Man's Land . His new book , The War Against Saddam , was published in November 2003 . NIALL FERGUSON is Herzog Professor of Financial History at New York University , and Visiting Professor of History at Oxford University . His books include The Pity of War , The Cash Nexus , and Empire : How Britain Made the Modern World , which accompanied a major television series . His new book , Colossus : The Cost and Benefits of the New American Empire , will also be accompanied by a major two-part Channel 4 series .	Promotion
1476	A heart murmur is a result of faulty blood flow within the heart . The familiar ' lub-dub ' sound of the heartbeat is brought on by the rhythmic closing of the heart valves . A heart murmur is an additional humming or whooshing sound , taking place between the heartbeat sounds . Lots of kids have ' innocent ' heart murmurs that do not require treatment . Nevertheless a harmful heart murmur may be a result of congenital heart disorders , mitral regurgitation , aortic regurgitation , mitral stenosis , harm to the cardiac muscle , anaemia , hyperthyroidism or stress . The acquainted ' lub-dub ' sound of the heartbeat is caused by the rhythmic closing of the heart valves as the blood is pumped in and out from the chambers . A heart murmur is a sound brought on by blood flow within the heart . Instead of ' lub-dub ' , the heartbeat may have an added sound like a hum , a whoosh or a rasp . The reason for the whooshing sound is the vibration of blood as it circulates through the heart , that is generally undetectable by stethoscope . Blood can flow abnormally through the heart for several reasons including defective valves , congenital heart disorders as well as anaemia . A ' noisy ' heart is n't always a sign of health problem or malfunction . Several kids have ' innocent ' heart murmurs that do n't require any treatment or observation . However , medical tests are usually needed to distinguish between a hazardous heart murmur and an innocent one , since they could sound the same through a stethoscope . Symptoms Heart murmurs are themselves usually asymptomatic ( have no symptoms ) . Commonly , they are innocent and are only observed during a routine medical check-up . Abnormal Heart murmurs might be associated with numerous kinds of heart disease , especially those affecting the heart valves . The presence of heart disease may be recommended by : Pains in the chest muscles Tachycardia ( faster heart rate ) Heart palpitations Breathlessness Weakness Cyanosis ( blue tinge to the skin due to insufficient oxygen ) . What Exactly Should I Check Out In The Booster Vehicle Seats ? Has baby outgrown the limits of the convertible car seat ? Well , it is time you sought for the booster car seats . Booster seats boost the positioning of your child in such a manner that the safety belt of your automobile fits well on your baby .	Information/Explanation
1097	"The FTU was formed as a multi-racial organization . However , in 1960 the Fijian Teachers Union ( FTA ) was founded . The FTA limited its membership to indigenous Fijians . Most indigenous Fijian educators left the FTU , so that the FTU's membership is now overwhelmingly Indian . [ 3 ] In 2004 , the Fiji Teachers Union counted about 4,200 members ( including over 700 indigenous Fijians ) . The Fiji Teachers' Association had about 3,500 members . [ 4 ] By 1924 there were a significant number of local and overseas trained in Fiji , who saw the need for an organised group of teachers to discuss their professional and administrative matters . Under the leadership of Sewak Masih ( of Toorak Boys' School ) , the Methodist Teachers' Association was formed and had members from Suva and Rewa . It adopted a motto : "" To serve the Community is to serve God "" . This association of teachers kept meeting in Suva until 1927 when Sewak Masih was transferred to Levuka and this gave him an opportunity to invite all the teachers from Suva , Ba , Lautoka and Nadi to attend a conference in Levuka . A teacher by the name of Dukhharan travelled with his group from the Western Districts to attend this meeting . Among other matters a plan for a united organization of teachers was kumar Another conference of the Methodist Teachers' Association was held at Methodist Boys' School in Toorak in 1928 where the following office bearers were elected : President : Sewak Masih , Vice President : P M Stephen , Secretary : G P Andrew and Assistant Secretary : HR Narayan . John Bairagi was elected as Secretary International and BR Padarath was chosen as the Treasurer . Professional lectures were presented during the afternoon dinner by I J Beatie ( M.A ) on the topic "" Reality in Education "" and by G H Tindlay ( M.A. ) on "" Psychology "" . There was no such organised association of teachers in the western side of Vitilevu ; however , a meeting was convened at Natabua on Saturday 7 December 1929 . The following teachers were present at this meeting : D A Shah , Dukharan , P M Stephen , D S John , W K Phillip , A V Ram Narayan , B L Ram Dass , R Varo , B H Sanjeu , Gulam Dastgir , J S Maiku , Jacob Wara , Peter Vatu , Farzand Ali and Pt Ami Chandra . C S Sharp , the principal of Natabua Secondary was invited to declare the meeting open . As a result of this gathering of teachers an association called The Lautoka Teachers' Association was formed under the chairmanship of Pt Ami Chandra . Dukharan was elected as the Vice President and W K Phillip became the Secretary / Treasurer . There was a committee of four executive members namely Robert Varo , D S John , P M Stephen and William . So by 1929 there were two Teachers' Unions , one in the Central and the other in the Western Division but with similar aims and objectives . Majority of the local teachers were the products of Davuilevu Teachers' Training Institute but the opening of Natabua Teachers' training Institute and the Cawaci Centre in 1929 produced more trained teachers for the schools . The administration of education in those days was done under the guidance and direction of the Director of Education but the status and service condition of the teachers were somewhat insecure and uncertain . Teachers were often victimised , over worked , underpaid and above all had to please many masters or bosses . The two newly formed teachers' organizations were not strong enough to voice their opinions and protests to bring harmony in the profession . The solution as seen by the teachers at that time lay in the creation of a united body of teachers for all of Fiji . On 9 March 1930 the Lautoka Teachers' Association decided to hold a conference for all the teachers of Fiji . A lot of teachers from Suva could not attend the Lautoka meeting because of the transport difficulty and the inclement weather . They held their own meeting in Suva . This date became historic for the Fiji Teachers' Union because it was at these meetings that the decision to amalgamate the Suva and Lautoka Teachers' Associations was made . Following Indian teachers from Lautoka were part of the historic decision : Dukharan , ( Chairman ) P M Steven , P Frank , D A Shah , S P Ram , A V Ram Narayan , B L R Dass , Shiu Charan , C William , G M Prakash , D S John , M Munam , Farzand Ali , J S Maiku , Ram Jati Singh , Ram Sundar , Rameshwar Prasad , Sher Mohammed , Badri Prasad , Kripa Masih , Andrew G Prasad and Dastgir and there were eight Fijian teachers there as well : M / s Logavatu , I Racule , Tevita , Asaeli , Kepuli , Jona , Maikeli , Isireli and Peni Tonga . Suva teachers who held their historic meeting to vote for amalgamation included the following : Sewak Masih ( Chairman ) , Hakim Din , B Samuel Sharan , N S Deoki , J John , K P Singh , H R Ram Narayan , J R Lochan , S Bharat , R D Sharma , D P Mishra , Edward Rama , Hari Bhajan , Ami Chandra , Hari Pal , A D Sharma , J S Bhagwan , Hira Lal , B R Padarath , B H Sanjeu , John Bairagi , George Sukhdeo , Shiu Mangal , B Ram Singh and T R Sharma . Fijian teachers Phillip Cula , T Rawasalevu , W Tuiwaqa , Sairusi Natuna and Inoke Cakutini were also present . The meeting was co-chaired by Dukharan and Sewak Masih . The Conference adopted the motto of the Union with the slogan , "" The Child Our Hope "" . The Principal of Natabua Secondary C S Sharp officially opened the historic meeting and a secondary teacher E Mason presented a professional paper for discussion . W K Phillip presented the Annual Reports of the Unions . He had taken over the position of secretary from AG Prasad who had resigned earlier in the year . The planning and organising of the Fiji Teachers' Union that had begun in 1930 was completed in 1931 when the two teachers' organizations of that time met at Natabua in Lautoka on 19 and 20 June and finally elected the officials of the National Executive . Mr S Hari Charan chaired the election procedures when D A Shah was elected the first President and Sewak Masih and S Hari Charan became the two Vice Presidents . R H Ram Narayan was elected the General Secretary with W K Phillip as his Assistant Secretary . J R Lochan became the Treasurer of the Union and there were twelve executive committee members : B H Sanjeu , R Deoki , S Parshu Ram , Andrew G Prasad , S Ram Singh , Tulsi R Sharma , Phillip Cula , I Racule , T Rawasalevu , W Tuiwaqa , Sairusi Natuni and Inoke Cakutini . At last the dream of Sewak Masih became a reality when the Fiji Teachers' Union was formed to represent all the teachers of Fiji . Total strength of the Union in 1931 was 112 and this included 18 Fijian members . Membership of the Union was open to all the teachers teaching in Fiji irrespective of their race , colour and creed . After 1931 the Fiji Teachers' Union members have been meeting regularly for their annual conferences during the first term school holidays . These meetings or conferences have been providing good opportunities to the teachers to meet each other and exchange their views and ideas . These meetings have been helping the members to make new acquaintances and learn new skills , ideas and knowledge through lectures and discussions . These conferences have also provided them a forum for active participation to further their professionalism and to update their rights and responsibilities . The venues for these Annual General Meetings depended on the branch invitations but from 1931 to 1938 they were held alternatively in Suva and Lautoka . During these years the Presidency of the Union was shared by two prominent teachers of that time , Dildhar Ali Shah and Ami Chandra . In 1939 however , the Ba Branch of the Union invited them to hold the Conference there and it was a successful event . Nadi was the next branch , which hosted the eleventh Conference in 1941 when the President was Hari Charan , who became the longest serving President of the Union-17 years . Other teachers who served as President of the Union were James Madhwan ( 8 years ) , NR Ram Krishna ( 1 Year ) , Ambika Nand ( 3 years ) , J R Lochan ( 1 Year ) , K C Ramrakha ( 8 years ) , Krishna Dutt ( 3 years ) , Shiu N Kanhai ( 3years ) , Shiu Charan , and Anil Sudhakar . The FTU registered with the national government as a trade union in 1947 . [ 3 ] In 1930 , FTU president was Dildar Ali Shah and the Secretary was W K Phillip after the Lautoka Teachers' Association and the Suva Teachers' Association amalgamated and changed the name to Fiji Teachers' Union with "" The Child Our Hope "" as its motto . Dildar Shah served as President until 1933 when Ami Chandra took over and remained President until 1935 . ref Dr. RL Prasad ( 1980 ) K. C. Ramrakha was President of the Fiji Teachers Union from 1967 to 1973 . He was also elected the General Secretary of the National Federation Party . Ramrakha was the first non-teacher to hold the position of President . His election and his leading role in the National Federation Party caused the Fijian Teachers Association to withdraw from merger talks between the two unions . [ 5 ] In after Fiji won its independence in 1970 FTU and FTA formed the Fiji Teachers' Confederation to give them more collective bargaining power . About 1983 the President , J Singh and Vice President , Soubhagyawati Parshu Ram ( first female ) led the FTU Suva branch . Ms S P Ram is the daughter of former Parliamentarian , J B Tularam . The Confederation led a major teachers' strike in 1985 which led to the formation of the Fiji Labour Party . The formation of the Fiji Labour Party led to radical changes in Fijian politics ( including two coups ) in the 1980s and 1990s . [ 3 ] The FTU remains competitive with the FTA for members . In 2005 and 2006 , for example , many members of the FTA left that organization to join the FTU after the FTU founded a credit union which offered high interest rates on savings . [ 1 ] In 2006 , the elected civilian government of Fiji was toppled in a military coup d ' état . In 2007 , the interim government instituted a 5 percent across-the-board wage cut for all public employees . Most public sector workers' unions struck in August 2007 , seeking restoration of the salary cut and a reduction in the retirement age from 60 to 55 . The FTU joined the strike . ^ a b c Padmini Gaunder , Education and Race Relations in Fiji , 1835-1998 , Universal Printing , 1999 ."	Information/Explanation
1060	Rule 182 - No betting on trials Betting shall not take place on any Trial . Rule 183 - Betting disputes and claims The Local Stewards and the NGRC Stewards shall take no cognisance of , and shall not entertain , any disputes or claims with respect to bets . Rule 184 - Licensed official attached to racecourse no to bet there A Licensed Official shall not make any bets on any Race at any Racecourse to which he / she is attached .	Legal
1669	"voter model coexists on the graph with two clusters One can imagine that there is a "" voter "" at each point on a connected graph , where the connections indicate that there is some form of interaction between a pair of voters ( nodes ) . The opinions of any given voter on some issue changes at random times under the influence of opinions of his neighbours . A voter's opinion at any given time can take one of two values , labelled 0 and 1 . At random times , a random individual is selected and that voter's opinion are changed according to a stochastic rule . Specifically , for one of the chosen voter's neighbors is chosen according to a given set of probabilities and that individual's opinion is transferred to the chosen voter . An alternative interpretation is in terms of spatial conflict . Suppose two nations control the areas ( sets of nodes ) labelled 0 or 1 . A flip from 0 to 1 at a given location indicates an invasion of that site by the other nation . Note that only one flip happens each time . Problems involving the voter model will often be recast in terms of the dual system of coalescing Markov chains . Frequently , these problems will then be reduced to others involving independent Markov chains . What we are interested in is the limiting behavior of the models . Since the flip rates of a site depends its neighbours , it is obvious that when all sites take the same value , the whole system stops changing forever . Therefore , a voter model has two trivial extremal stationary distributions , the point-masses δ 0 and δ 1 on η ≡ 0 or η ≡ 1 respectively , which represent consensus . The main question we will discuss is whether or not there are others , which would then represent coexistence of different opinions in equilibrium . We say that coexistence occurs if there is a stationary distribution that concentrates on configurations with infinitely many 0 's and 1 's ."	Information/Explanation
1574	"The environment has four major components : the air , the land , the water and the living organisms which inhabit it . Scientists have given special names for each by creating words based on Greek vocabulary . The first component of the environment is called the atmosphere . The atmosphere contains gases such as nitrogen , oxygen and a small amount of carbon dioxide . The next category of the environment is where all the water is found . It is called the hydrosphere . Bodies of water such as lakes , streams and the oceans form the hydrosphere . The lithosphere is the rock crust of the Earth . The entire planet is covered by the lithosphere , even though most of it has a layer of water on top called the oceans . The last category of the environment is what makes the Earth unique : the biosphere . The biosphere is where all life is found . The Atmosphere Although it is almost entirely invisible , the atmosphere is the easiest part of the Earth's environment to study . Most of the hydrosphere and the lithosphere are difficult to access and remain largely unexplored . The atmosphere , however , has very few mysteries . Just about every cubic metre of it has been observed by scientists or satellites . Johnny's Fact File No. 40 Some Greek words and their meanings "" atmo "" means vapour or air "" hydro "" means water "" litho "" means rock or stone "" bios "" means life Composition of the Air Over 200 years ago , the French scientist Antoine Lavoisier measured the chemical composition of air . Since the gases which make up the atmosphere are invisible , the best way to visualize them is by expressing them as percentages and by using a pie chart . It is important to note that oxygen gas , whose chemical symbol is 0 2 , is not the main component of air and that carbon dioxide , C0 2 , represents much less than one percent . You can see the apparatus Lavoisier used to measure the atmosphere at the Musée des arts et Métiers in Paris Ultraviolet Radiation and Heat Even though it is invisible , the atmosphere is very important for life on this planet . First of all , the atmosphere protects the surface from too much ultraviolet radiation . Ultraviolet radiation , or UV radiation , is a type of energy from the sun which , in high doses , can be dangerous for living organisms . UV radiation is responsible for giving people sun burns . Too much of it causes skin cancer . The atmosphere protects the Earth's surface in two ways . The first way is that gases in the atmosphere are capable of absorbing certain types of radiation , like a sponge absorbs water . The second way is by reflecting radiation in the same way that a mirror reflects light . As a result , very little UV radiation from the Sun ever gets to the Earth's surface . Heat , another type of energy , is absorbed or reflected by the gases in the atmosphere . Some of the heat from the Sun is reflected by the atmosphere so that the Earth does not get too hot . At night , the atmosphere prevents the Earth's heat from escaping into space . As a result , the surface does not get too cold at night ."	Information/Explanation
946	Library of all DH publications , to browse and locate your required documents by the fully functioning search facility below . If you do not know the title of the publication , you can make use of keywords to help locate it . You can also use words or figures in any or all of the fields below to refine your search . If you are looking for a particular kind of publication , such as an annual report or policy document , you can focus your search on a subsection of the publications library .	Instruction
1322	"REPRODUCTION IN MINIS Breeding for Conformation & Refinement The objective of our breeding program is to contribute toward improving the Miniature Horse breed . Therefore , careful consideration is given to best determine the most probable characteristics of foals resulting from each potential breeding . We consider each mare's individual characteristics to determine which stallion is the ideal match for her . Every horse has it 's strong points and it 's less than perfect features , whether a beloved pet or a National Grand Champion . Our breeding program includes some top quality horses to which we are continuously adding . Even with the most conscientious planning & considerations , there are no absolute guarantees . We may occasionally have foals available for purchase that are less than show quality but would make wonderful , loving pets and are priced accordingly . The Broodmare If you are considering a breeding program , breed only healthy , quality , mature miniature horse stock . Following a regular worming and vaccination schedule is a necessity . Rely on your vet's advice as different areas have different requirements . Good Quality hay and feed are also necessary to produce the best miniature horses . Breeding miniature horses requires a substantial investment as well as the breeder's time , especially during foaling season . Mares should be 3 years of age before producing although some larger 2 year olds have been bred without any problems . Breeders should always consider the temperament , height and conformation of the Mare as well as the Stallion . It may be the mare , not the stallion , in many cases that determines the height and conformation of the foal . A good miniature horse breeder maintains accurate records of the Get of Sires and Produce of Dams to determine which Stallions and Mares should be used in the breeding program . Not all mares and not all stallions are suitable for breeding . The gestation period of the miniature mare is 330 days , plus or minus fifteen days . Some mares will foal in 10 months and some will carry a full 12 months . Abnormal gestation periods are often characteristic of that particular mare but we feel the weather may also be a factor . The premature foal is likely to be smaller and require special attention , while the 12 month foal may be born measuring 23 inches instead of the average 18 to 21 . Often a 12 month foal will have more hair than usual . The 10-month foal and the 12-month foal may well be the same size by 6 months of age since heredity is the determining factor . Foals are generally born from March through June because mares usually start to cycle during the spring and summer as the length of day increases . The heat cycle is dependent on the number of hours of light - natural or artificial . The reproductive process usually begins in February-March , but the heat cycles are irregular . The highest conception rates in horses is in April to July , consequently , most births will be from March to June the next year . Some breeders , for a variety of reasons , use artificial lighting and heated barns to alter the normal cycling period . Once mares begin to cycle normally , there is a fertile time when the mare will accept the male for breeding . This period of estrus , "" heat "" or "" season , "" occurs every 21 days on average . Most mares are in heat for about 5-7 days and most mares will come in season 5 to 7 days after foaling , in what horse people call the "" foal heat . "" Unless the mare experienced difficulty in foaling , or for some other reason , there is no reason why she should not be rebred at this time . Ovulation occurs 24-48 hours before the end of estrus . In order for conception to occur , the male sperm must be present at this time . Therefore , the timing of breeding or insemination is very difficult to determine in the mare . Most importantly , you must know your mare . She may cycle every 24 days or perhaps the duration of her heat cycle may only be 3 days . You must be observant and recognize when your mare is in heat . A mare coming into standing heat will show signs of increased activity and excitability . She will urinate frequently , carry her tail raised and occasionally show a "" vulva winking , "" opening and closing the outer lips of the vulva . Once the mare will stand to be bred ( standing heat ) , she will often back up to the stallion , as opposed to when not in heat , she may have kicked or bitten at him . The reproductive tract becomes a brighter reddish color as the circulation is increased , mucous excretion becomes more active , and the cervix is open . It is essential to tease a mare daily with a stallion or sometimes even a gelding to detect the onset of estrus . This is one of the biggest problems for the mare owner who plans to breed to a stallion located elsewhere . People wanting to start a Miniature Horse breeding program can either purchase a proven mature stallion or a young colt that could develop into a breeding stallion in a year or so . ( Young colts are generally not as expensive as a mature stallion . ) This is usually dictated by how much money one is prepared to spend and how soon they want to start their program . Some owners arrange to breed their mare to a stallion owned by someone else , in which case they deliver the mare to the owner of the stallion , planning to leave her for 30 to 45 days , allowing time for two heat cycles . If you are booking your mare to be bred to someone else 's stallion , the stallion owner will advise you as to what he requires with respect to health examinations , vaccinations , and cultures of the mare's reproductive tract . These are technical medical procedures to be performed by your veterinarian . Many breeders "" pasture breed "" ; that is , they put a stallion with certain mares , leaving them together for the spring and early summer . The conception rate can be higher , but one seldom knows exactly when to expect the foals and some stallions may reject some mares , and vice versa for reasons known only to them . Pregnancy can be ascertained as early as two weeks by a variety of tests available to your veterinarian , the most certain of which is ultrasound , but a confirmed pregnancy does not insure a foal every year . The mare may abort , undetected , or may reabsorb the fetus . Most breeders are guided by the heat cycle : if the mare is serviced by a stallion and does not recycle in about 24 days , they consider her to be in foal . Most mares will begin to show signs of being "" in foal "" at about eight months , while some maiden mares may keep their figure a little longer . Udder development will be discernable about four weeks prior to foaling . During the last week , the foal will drop in the abdomen and this change in the mare's appearance will be noticeable . At about 48-72 hours before foaling the mare will begin dripping milk ( known as colostrum ) from her teats . This fluid will dry and harden on the teats - known as "" waxing over . "" Usually in the last 24 hours before foaling the mare may show signs of distress . She may stay apart from the other horses , bite at her flanks , paw , lie down and get up frequently , whether in a stall or paddock . She should be put in a stall measuring at least 8 ' x 8 ' at night so that she can be observed . We prefer shavings ( for absorption ) under a good layer of straw for bedding in the foaling pen . If nothing else is available , newspapers might be an option to provide cleanliness and warmth . Generally , mares prefer no human company during foaling , so unless you are observing the horse on a monitor , it is likely you will miss the miracle of birth . The actual birth process usually takes 5-20 minutes . If a mare has been in labor longer than 20 minutes there could very well be a problem so you should call your vet . In a normal birth a balloon-like membrane , or bubble will appear . This will break and release about a half-gallon of fluid . Within a few minutes , one forefoot should appear , then the other forefoot . This sequence means that one shoulder at a time is passing through the cervix , which is much easier on the mare . Then the head appears , tucked between the forelegs . Once the head and shoulders are clear , the rest is quickly passed . The birth track is circular and down , and any assistance given the mare should be within that track . Never try to pull a foal straight out or up , and do n't try to use a calf-puller or other traction device on a mare . If the mare is having difficulty , call your veterinarian ! A delay , even of several hours may risk losing the foal , and the mare as well . If all has gone well , the foal will be on the ground , still attached by its umbilical cord to the placenta . The head should be free of the sac and the foal should be breathing . If so , leave them alone , for the foal is still receiving blood from the placenta , and the mare is resting . If the nostrils are not clear of the sac , tear the sac open so the head is free . Making certain that the foal emerges from the "" bag "" may well be one of the most important reasons for being present at the birth . In five to ten minutes , the foal will begin trying to stand . Leave it alone . It will struggle and fall several times . This is normal . It will be on its feet in about fifteen minutes , often before the mare stands . During its struggle to stand , the umbilical cord will break , and the foal will be free , but the mare will not have expelled the placenta yet , and may not do so for another half hour or so . If the placenta is not expelled within four hours , call your vet . The foal's umbilical stump should be disinfected with an iodine solution or other prescribed disinfectant . It is crucial that the foal receive colostrum from its Dam , usually within the first 12 hours after birth . The colostrum it receives during the next twenty-four hours contains the anti-bodies necessary for the foal's immune system . If the foal has not nursed or if it is obvious that the Mare has no milk or colostrum , call your vet immediately . Steps can be taken to insure that the foal receives the proper protection , but it must be done while the foal is still susceptible to accepting colostrum . There are colostrum replacements on the market today that can be administered to the foal by iv or orally . A plasma transfer that can supply the newborn foal with antibodies can be performed if the foal is 12 hours or older and has not received adequate colostrum from its Dam . It is important to be on hand when the foal is born to make first-hand observations and to take the necessary steps if required . A foal is usually up and nursing within the first 2 hours . Most births are without incidence , and are truly an awesome experience to witness but one should be prepared to assist just in case , that 1-10 % strikes . Many vets recommend that the foal be wormed at one month of age and every month thereafter for the first year . Alternate worming products in order to prevent a resistance to a particular wormer . A vaccination is also required for the young foal . Set up a proper schedule with your vet . The Breeding Stallion For many , their first miniature horse was a young stallion , bought because it satisfied the urge to have a miniature horse and was also affordable . The new owner might have intended to geld the colt but never got around to it , or perhaps , decided that it was such a well behaved horse , and such a good specimen , that it should be kept as a breeding stallion . Everyone knows that you ca n't stop at one mini . A mare is often purchased with thoughts of having babies . Stallions are generally able to breed at 2 years , however , most Stallions should be at least 3 before being introduced as a small herd stallion . When outlining a breeding program , breeders should consider the temperament of the stallion , his height , conformation , and his pedigree . Producing color may also be an important factor to a breeder . Health is vital for a breeding stallion . He must be disease-free , and should be free of parasites . An effective worming program is essential , as is a daily exercise program for stallions kept in a stall . The pent-up energy , coupled with the frustration of being stalled , can lead to behavioral problems and refusal to perform in the breeding shed . The easiest form of exercise ( for the handler ) is free exercise - turn him loose in a spacious paddock , and watch him run , mane and tail flying . Watch him buck and cavort ; he may continue for thirty minutes . Then work him for another thirty minutes on a lead line or lunge line , or put him on a hot walker . A vigorous exercise program , in addition to physiological soundness and control , will increase the libido or sex-drive without causing control problems . It is the unexercised , undisciplined horse that causes problems , and not because his libido is high , but because he is out of his stall and intends to make the most of it . The exercised stallion works up an appetite and usually consumes his total daily ration . Whereas , good nutrition increases the number and motility of the sperm and exercise reduces boredom and the resultant stall vices such as cribbing , eating bedding , and masturbation . Additionally , exercise increases owner satisfaction because the horse looks better due to increased muscle tone , adequate sunlight , and that air of well-being which results . Many Miniature Horse owners pasture breed , that is , they put one stallion in a pasture with the mares that are to be bred to him . Most stallions perform well , but the stallion must be in excellent condition when turned out because he will lose weight worrying about and herding his harem from one area to another , keeping them rounded up and together . That is but one reason supplemental feeding is recommended . The horse owner never stops learning from experience and reading , but once "" hooked "" has a world of"	Information/Explanation
1119	"We noticed that you 're using an unsupported browser . The TripAdvisor website may not display properly . We support the following browsers : Windows : Internet Explorer , Mozilla Firefox , Google Chrome . Mac : Safari . Book your hotel on TripAdvisor and you could win a great trip ! The Connaught 16 Carlos Place | Mayfair , London W1K 2AL , England Book on Trusted partner . We work with to make your booking as easy as possible . Secure payments . We use industry-leading practices to keep your information secure . Book on Enter dates for best prices powered by Best prices for : 1 room Check In - Check Out 1 room 2 rooms 1 guest 2 guests Check In Check Out Check In Check Out Please enter your travel dates to continue Check Availability Book on or compare prices from up to 200 sites including : TripAdvisor members only . Login for exclusive access to hotel deals up to 40 % off Rooms & rates for The Connaught We 're finding you the best rooms at the lowest prices from our partner . Book on Check In Check Out 1 room 2 guests 4 Standard Room Getting you more information on this room See More Free Cancellation Best Price / night taxes & fees Select Show available rooms for The Connaught We 're sorry , there are no available rooms for this property on TripAdvisor . Please change dates or see offers from our partners . 654 Reviews from our TripAdvisor Community Read reviews that mention : All reviews new wing coburg bar carlos place helene darroze mount street butler service grosvenor suite traditional rooms older part berkeley square afternoon tea great hotels luxury hotels tea service favorite hotel moment you arrive room service wonderful hotel five star hotel cocktail bar Review tags are currently only available for English language reviews . The Connaught is a lovely hotel in the heart of the Mayfair area of London . Stayed here for 3 nights and it is just wonderful . Upon arrival I was greeted by a lovely front desk agent who immediately escorted me to my room . There was a beautiful breakfast tray arranged on the desk with fresh juice and breakfast pastries . The ... More Helpful ? 1 Thank luxtrav26 Report TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Thank you so much for such a lovely review , it is most rewarding to hear your remarks and I assure you they will be passed on to all the employees . I am delighted to hear that you enjoyed the amenities of the hotel and that you found our level of service and attention to detail wonderful . We very much look ... More Steven at Aman Spa at the Connaught hotel is the best therapist EVER . Visited the spa few days ago with my sister on a pampering day and I 've been taken on a journey with the best massage / facial ever by Steven . Best neck massage in my lifeeeee : ) will definitely go back again and recommended to all my family and friends . Helpful ? Thank rzlondon0208 Report TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Thank you very much for your feedback regarding your recent visit to the Aman Spa at The Connaught . Please be assured your comments have been forwarded to Steven , and I am delighted to hear that you enjoyed your visit and that you intend to return . We look forward to welcoming back in the very near future . Kindest regards , Massimiliano Binda ... More I honestly ca n't state one complaint . Most exquisite service . Great location . They aim to please , and succeed Concierge worked diligently to make sure we had any reservation etc that we needed . Connaught bar lives up to its hype . And then we found a champagne bar in the back of the lobby . Talk about service with a smile Helpful ? 1 Thank A TripAdvisor Member Report TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Thank you so much for your kind comments regarding your recent visit to The Connaught . I have passed on your remarks to our Concierge and Connaught Bar staff , and I am delighted to hear that they were able to assist you with requests and that we could make your stay enjoyable . It is very rewarding to hear such feedback and ... More We could not have picked a better venue for our wedding - from the very moment we met Janet Tai in the events team the whole process of planning the wedding was a total pleasure . Everything went seamlessly and the venue looked beautiful . The day was really made by the staff who helped it go so well , they were attentive , ... More Helpful ? Thank Debbie L Report TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Thank you so much for your lovely comments , it was a great pleasure for us to be part of such a special occasion for you , and wonderful to hear that we managed to meet all your expectations . Thank you again for taking the time to make us aware of your experience . We do hope there will be future occasions when ... More Visited London in May with my wife for a long and wonderfully romantic weekend . The Connaught exceeded all expectations , and certainly worthy of the glowing recommendations received from our friends . The location in Mayfair is absolutely beautiful and very convenient . We prefer the Connaught over Claridges and the Ritz , as it is a far more intimate and welcoming hotel experience . Helpful ? 1 Thank Chris D Report TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Thank you so much for your wonderful comments , I am so pleased that you and your wife enjoyed your weekend with us . We are very lucky with our fabulous location in Mayfair and I am delighted that you found this lovely area convenient to your needs . Thank you again for your kind comments , we all look forward to welcoming you ... More The Connaught is my place when I go to London . Perfect location in Mayfair , close to my favourite Mount Street . My room is always special decorated , stylish , spacious . Bed is comfortable , room is quiet . Breakfast is superb . Very professional staff . The hotel is sending regularly special newsletters on my email which are always a masterpiece . Helpful ? 1 Thank _bas_brody Report TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Thank you very much for your kind comments , I am so delighted to hear that you enjoyed your stay , and our wonderful location in the heart of Mayfair . I am so pleased that you find our employees professional and that you find receiving regular updates and newsletters useful and informative . We all look forward to welcoming you back to The ... More We spent two nights here . Nothing is to much trouble for the staff here . Anything you need they can do for you . Two great bars , fantastic Restuarant , Helene Darroze with 2 Michelin stars . The hotel also has another Restuarant . Great spar , I had a massage & it was one of the best I 've ever had . Central Mayfair so great position ... More Helpful ? Thank Daren1234 Report TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Dear Daren1234 Thank you very much for your generous and thoughtful comment on TripAdvisor following your recent stay with us . I sincerely appreciate your kind comments on our hotel which I look forward to sharing with our team who will be delighted to hear that they could be part in creating such a memorable stay . My colleagues and I look ... More We travel extensively in Europe . The Connaught was our home in London whilst we visited the Capital . The service , food and rooms were magnificent . The central London location is just perfect . The staff are the true stars as nothing is to much trouble . Would we return to The Connaught ? . We have already booked . Helpful ? 1 Thank P2414MVpaulb Report TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Dear P2414MVpaulb , Thank you for sharing with us your feedback on your recent stay with us . We are delighted to hear that The Connaught is considered your home away from home and I will be sure to pass on your kind words to our team who will be delighted that they could make your stay a memorable experience . We look ... More This hotel continues to excel time after time . The service is above reproach . Mention an issue and it 's immediately fixed . Location is great . Easy walk to sights and the theater . Great dining abounds in the area . TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Dear Jose T , Thank you very much for taking the time to share your recent experience on Trip Advisor . We are delighted you had an enjoyable and memorable stay and look forward to welcoming you back whenever you travel plans allow . With kind regards Massimiliano Binda General Manager More Had an absolutely delicious lunch in the Espelette today . I had the Norfolk chicken pie and my husband had the sea bass , beautifully cooked and served . We have been for afternoon tea before but this was our first time having lunch , we 'll definitely be back ! It 's a lovely , quiet , old fashioned hotel with very welcoming staff , nothing is too much ... More Helpful ? Thank daytripper9 Report TheConnaughtHotel , General Manager at The Connaught , responded to this review Dear daytripper9 , Thank you very much for taking the time to share your wonderful experience at Espelette . We were delighted to hear that you enjoyed your lunch with your husband and I will be sure to pass on your kind words to the entire team who will be delighted that they could make your visit a memorable one . We look ... More Staying in Mayfair Neighbourhood Profile Mayfair Set beside some of London's best parks and home to world-class galleries , luxurious hotels , and famed thoroughfares , the ultra upscale Mayfair is one of London's most exclusive haunts . Here the shopping is haute , the dining is exquisite , and the nightlife is vibrant . A casual stroll through the area's chic streets will reveal that Michelin stars and chauffeured cars are practically the norm here . Even if you 're on a tight budget , this exceptionally well connected swath of Central London is worth exploring , if only for the chance to take a peak at the goings on of upper crust English society . Small , traditional hotel with tranquil atmosphere , multilingual staff ; overlooking one of the most picturesque spots in Mayfair .... more less Additional Information about The Connaught Address : 16 Carlos Place | Mayfair , London W1K 2AL , England Region : United Kingdom > England > London > Mayfair Price Range : £ 390 - £ 871 ( Based on Average Rates for a Standard Room ) Hotel Class : 5 star – The Connaught 5 * Number of rooms : 121 Reservation Options : TripAdvisor is proud to partner with Expedia , Hotels.com and Booking.com so you can book your The Connaught reservations with confidence . We help millions of travellers each month to find the perfect hotel for both holiday and business trips , always with the best discounts and special offers . Also Known As : The Connaught Hotel London Connaught Hotel London Connaught London Hotel Style : # 5 Spa Hotel in London # 9 Luxury Hotel in London # 49 Business Hotel in London # 51 Romantic Hotel in London # 132 Family Hotel in London Is This Your TripAdvisor Listing ? Own or manage this property ? Claim your listing for free to respond to reviews , update your profile and much more . Questions & Answers Here 's what travellers have asked , with answers from The Connaught staff and other travellers . "" The double rooms are lovely . A basic category , but with more room than in other hotels in London . "" * TripAdvisor LLC is not a booking agent and does not charge any service fees to users of our site ... ( more ) We noticed that you 're using an unsupported browser . The TripAdvisor website may not display properly . We support the following browsers : Windows : Internet Explorer , Mozilla Firefox , Google Chrome . Mac : Safari . TripAdvisor LLC is not responsible for content on external web sites . Taxes , fees not included for deals content . Welcome back ! Prices may have changed while you were gone . Please refresh the page to see the latest prices for The Connaught . Refresh Prices How to enter the "" Book a Stay , Win a Getaway "" sweepstakes : • Book your hotel directly on TripAdvisor . Find your ideal hotel on TripAdvisor . co. uk , then look for "" TripAdvisor "" in the list of pricing options . Select your room and then complete your booking right here on TripAdvisor , without leaving our site . Once you 've booked , you 'll be entered automatically . • Or , book your hotel by clicking off to any partner site from TripAdvisor . Once your booking is complete , use the entry form to enter . How it works : • One ( 1 ) entry per person during the entry period . No purchase necessary . • Entry period begins on 18 October 2016 00 : 01am EST and ends on 20 November 2016 23 : 59pm EST . • "" Book a Stay , Win a Getaway "" is open to legal residents of the United States and United Kingdom who are 18 years of age or older . • A random drawing will be conducted on or about 22 November 2016 by the Administrator from all eligible entries received during the entry period . • Winners will be notified by 9 December 2016 . Learn more . close Price Finder is your ultimate hotel booking tool , checking hundreds of sites to help you find the lowest prices . TripAdvisor uses cookies to improve your site experience . Learn more or change your settings . By continuing , you consent to our cookies ."	Promotion
295	Hosted Microsoft Exchange 2003 from Siemens Solution1 Scalable and Managed Corporate-grade Microsoft Exchange 2003 Hosted Microsoft Exchange 2003 Overview Are you using a free e-mail service from your ISP , looking to move to a corporate grade messaging environment or thinking about upgrading from previous versions of Microsoft Exchange ? Siemens Solution1 delivers a real alternative to implementing in-house Microsoft Exchange 2003 infrastructure , offering fast implementation and low commercial risk . The service is secure , delivering the availability you require to run your business today . Siemens do n't just offer you a superior technology solution ; all aspects are covered under a managed service for hosted Microsoft Exchange 2003 . Solution1 guarantees a fully maintained secure solution including upgrades , on-going support and daily resilient data back up , with added anti virus protection , anti spam filters , back office and help desk services all for a fully monthly fee . The service delivers an affordable and highly efficient alternative to deploying a solution in-house enabling you to focus on your business . Features Full Microsoft Exchange 2003 : Desktop Outlook 2003 Client . Full Outlook 2003 client access over HTTPS removing the need for a VPN . Outlook Web Access over any internet connected terminal . Outlook Mobile Access for your PDA or phone . Highly Secure - All data is managed within Siemens twin Hewlett Packard data centres . Carrier grade Juniper firewalls and security systems make sure that your solution runs at optimum performance . All data is backed up at to resilient SAN's and tape storage systems daily Scaleable Storage - Siemens offer storage solutions as part of our Exchange offering . Whether you require 100mb per account or 10gb for your business Siemens storage offers mirrored disks on a dual resilient SAN ( Storage Area Network ) including daily tape back up Virus Free - Sybari Antigen running 5 different real time virus engines included Easy to Manage - Ensim Unify is a powerful web based tool for administration of your business users Dedicated Support - Siemens offer support services as standard . You receive dedicated account management , access to the MyOne Intranet portal as well as on-site support Benefits Save Time - Siemens can deliver and manage your entire IT network including suppliers , enabling you to focus on your business priorities Save Money - On leased lines , multiple support contracts and maintenance . The service including all equipment is leased removing capital depreciation costs from your business Manage Your Risk - Work with a company who you can trust . A company who enables you to match your payments to the service benefits you receive . Drive Customer Expectations - We understand the importance of good customer service . Our services enable you to deliver value to your customers , increase your revenue and enter new market opportunities	Promotion
463	Whats the world coming too ??? A very well known high street adult store , have just made the name of this toy ( their best seller ) their copyright ..... Not the toy - the name !!! So what have we done , well .... renamed it ... reboxed it .... and put it on sale at £ 10 off ... oh and give you the batteries FREE to fire this bad boy up . We all know its not the name but the price that makes all the difference Vibrating shaft is shaped like a smooth , textured penis for deep penetrating stimulation . A varienty of speeds with just a touch of a button Rotating pleasure beads stimulate the sensitive innermost areas of the vagina for moments of sheer ecstasy Twisting action in two different directions lets you experience endless combinations of erotic stimulation Vibrating rabbit has two long ears which surround the clitoris with waves of exquisitive vibration , heightening and intensifying orgasm Two powerful motors insure long lasting hours of sublime intimate pleasure . Please note : - This item does not currently qualify for free delivery since the special offer on it drops the price below the free delivery threshold of £ 30	Promotion
480	"OMEGA's LE902 series linear encoders work on the principle of counting pulses as a series of graduations move past a detector . These graduations are deposited on a low-temperature - coefficient glass ( quartz glass ) and counted using photodetectors . Because the glass is exceptionally stable , the pitch of the graduations does not change , resulting in inherently good long term stability . Signal conditioning is performed in an in-line electronics assembly which converts signals from the probe head to a digital format which can be plugged directly into a digital readout , computer or PLC via an RS-232 adaptor or the LDN101 network card . SPECIFICATIONS Reading Rate / Sec : 1000 Accuracy : ± 0 . 5 μm ( 20 μin ) Resolution : ± 0 . 5 μm ( 2 μin ) Gauging Speed : 0.5 mm / sec ( 0 . 020 in / sec ) Operating Temp , Probe : 0 to 80 ° C ( 32 to 175 ° F ) Electronics Assembly : 0 to 60 ° C ( 32 to 140 ° F ) Storage Temp , Probe : -20 to 80 ° C ( - 4 to 176 ° F ) Electronics Assembly : -20 to 60 ° C ( - 4 to 140 ° F ) Calibration Temperature : 20 ° C ( 68 ° F ) Environmental Rating : IP65 For full product specifications view pdf file in "" Related Links "" below"	Information/Explanation
843	Now in its revised Sixth Edition , this classic text provides a thorough understanding of the techniques of the neurologic examination , the anatomic and physiologic bases of the results , and why the neurologic examination is still necessary in this age of advancing technology . This edition includes new signs and symptoms , new case material , and new illustrations . A new section on the mental status examination and higher cortical functions discusses disorders of the cerebral cortex , speech and language , and related disorders . Other new sections discuss Orthopedic Neurology , Special Methods of Examination including coma and miscellaneous neurologic signs , and Neurologic Differential Diagnosis . Related Products : Merritt's Neurology 11 / e - Lewis P. Rowland - 15 Apr 2005 Practical Neurology DVD Review - José Biller MD , FACP , FAAN , FAHA - 15 Mar 2005	Promotion
376	It is an old maxim , but delivering the right goods to the right customer at the right time and at the right price remains more important than ever in today's world . In order to stay profitable and remain competitive , distribution companies need to be able to provide the highest levels of customer service , yet maintain a streamlined and efficient organisation behind the scenes . An organisation must provide effective control over the entire business to ensure agile response to challenges and that supply and demand is continually and carefully matched . Syscom works with many distribution companies across a range of industry sectors including consumer electronics , industrial , food and textiles and apparel . Our people have extensive experience of the industry and deliver the knowledge and understanding of issues that matter to make a real difference . We offer a range of state of the art , flexible and scaleable end to end solutions specifically designed and for small and medium sized businesses .	Promotion
396	Publications - Committee on Analytical Requirements ( CAR ) The Committee on Analytical Requirements ( CAR ) comprises occupational hygienists and other stakeholders from HSL , external agencies and industry . Its aim is to identify new or improved tools to assess exposure to harmful substances in the workplace and disseminate information to potential users . Terms of Reference Minutes of Meetings News Methods in Preparation Useful Links Terms of Reference The aims of the Committee on Analytical Requirements and its working groups , in liaison with other organisations are : To advise on the need for new or improved tools to assess exposure to harmful materials in workplaces covered by HSE and Local Authorities ; To evaluate and peer review the tools to ensure they are fit for purpose ; To disseminate information about the assessment tools to potential users ; To encourage good quality in the application of the tools . Back to the top Minutes of Meetings Meeting 48 , 27 October 2005 - click here to download ( PDF ) Workshop , 8 June 2005 - click here to download ( PDF ) Back to the top News The next CAR meeting is scheduled for 16 May 2006 at HSL . MDHS39 / 4 Asbestos fibres in air sampling and evaluation by Phase Contrast Microscopy ( PCM ) under the Control of Asbestos at Work Regulations and Asbestos in bulk materials , and MDHS 77 Sampling and identification by polarised light microscopy ( PLM ) have now been incorporated into HSG248 ' Asbestos : the analysts' guide for sampling , analysis and clearance procedures ' and will be withdrawn by the end of 2006 when the new regulations are due to come into force . MDHS 63 / 2 - 1 , 3-Butadiene in air - Laboratory method using diffusive samplers , thermal desorption and gas chromatography was published March 2005 MDHS 101 - Crystalline silica in respirable airborne dusts was published February 2005 . This method replaces MDHSs 37 and 51 . MDHS 53 / 2 1 , 3-Butadiene in air . Laboratory method using pumped molecular sieve sorbent tubes , thermal desorption and gas chromatography was published August 2003 . MDHS 95 / 2 Measurement of personal exposure of metalworking machine operators to airborne water-mix metalworking fluid was published August 2003 . Back to the top Methods in Preparation New MDHS on Asbestos contaminated land New MDHS on ICP / AES MDHS 97 Methods for sampling surface contamination MDHS 61 / 2 Total hexavalent chromium compounds in air MDHS 59 / 2 Man-made mineral fibre	Information/Explanation
776	Wess T , Alberts I , Cameron G , Laurie C , Orgel J , Hiller J , Nielsen Marsh C , De La Cruz Balthazar V , Drakopoulos M , Pollard A M , Collins M. Small angle X-ray scattering reveals changes of bone mineral habit and size in archaeological bone samples . ( 2000 ) Fibre Diffraction Review 9 36-43 X-ray scattering provides a powerful non-destructive technique capable of providing important information about the size , habit and arrangement of mineral crystals in bone . In the case of archaeological bone the changes in the habit of the apatite crystals and recrystallised material may reflect the changes in bone environment that have occurred since death . In the study presented here we have examined a variety of archaeological bones by small-angle X-ray scattering to show the alterations in bone habit that can be adopted after ' diagenetic remodelling ' . Furthermore we show that the use of small-angle scattering microfocus technology allows us to probe into the fine structure alterations that can occur in bone as a result of microbial attack and mineral recrystallisation . The integrity of the bone crystallites has a strong correlation with the ability to extract other biomolecules from bone such as osteocalcin and DNA . Alterations in the crystallite habit may explain the success of macromolecule recovery from archaeological samples .	Information/Explanation
128	Welcome to the Help Center ! Take a minute to learn about the resources at your disposal , so you can get to the information you need as quickly as possible . To add some fun , Matt from the Google team also created a musical tour of the Help Center that you can watch : Search for your answer . Type your question in the search box at the top of the Help Center , then click the Search Help button to see relevant articles and forum discussions . Browse recommended and popular articles .. You can find these articles on the right side of the page . These recommendations are based on your Help Center searches and articles that many other people have viewed . Check out key help resources . We 've also called out some special help resources -- such as comprehensive guides , video tutorials , and lists of known product issues -- on the right side of the page . Use links on the left to navigate . Links to various topics of the Help Center are listed on the left , to help you quickly get to different sections in the site . You can also click the top Help articles link to go to the Help Center homepage . Ask questions in the Help Forum . Some Help Centers have a Help Forum section where you can share tips and ask other users questions about the product . Need more help ? Find out how to contact us . Click the Contacting us link at the bottom of the page to learn about options available for contacting the Google team .	Instruction
760	structural characterisation of new materials using state-of-the-art crystallographic methods Lightfoot , Dr Philip ( 2002 ) structural characterisation of new materials using state-of-the-art crystallographic methods . Full text available as : HTML ( archive ) Abstract We are interested in the design , synthesis and characterisation of advanced inorganic materials with novel physical and chemical properties , and the understanding of the interplay of structure , composition and properties . Particular emphasis is placed on the structural characterisation of new materials using state-of-the-art crystallographic methods such as X-ray and neutron diffraction , both in the UK and in Grenoble , France . The types of functional materials being studied is wide-ranging , and currently includes ferroelectrics , magnetic materials , negative thermal expansion materials and microporous materials . EPrint Type : Other Keywords : ferroelectrics , perovskites , structural characterisation , crystal structure , phase transition , negative thermal expansion , microporosity , zeolites , hydrothermal chemistry	Information/Explanation
456	Supermarket Oct 2005 Project Info Artist Charlotte Thrane's project Supermarket set out to create an environment ( installation ) based on a supermarket with the objects , activities , people , sounds and colours that can be found in such places . By creating backdrops , costumes , masks and props and thinking about poses , characters , lighting and atmosphere , pupils from Halley Primary School were encouraged to share their creative processes and make collective decisions . The project culminated in a double live still film image , projected both at the Chisenhale as part of the installation on the final day , and later at Halley Primary School .	News
1010	The New Year brings good news for Midlands' travellers , as British Airways ' Danish franchise airline , ' Sun-Air ' , announces it will launch six weekly services from Birmingham International Airport to Billund , in central Denmark , from Monday 4th April 2005 . The new service will depart Birmingham at 19 : 20 arriving at Billund at 22 : 10 . Meanwhile the return flight will depart Billund at 18 : 00 and will arrive into Birmingham at 18 : 50 . The service will be operated by the airline's new 32-seat Dornier 328 aircraft . Reservations can be made at	News
1214	"Stars kick off movie awards season at Hollywood Film Awards Mel Gibson , Natalie Portman and Tom Hanks are among the stars who were honoured at the Hollywood Film Awards . Gibson won best director for World War II drama Hacksaw Ridge , a sign he has been accepted by the industry a decade after an infamous anti-Semitic rant . Portman won best actress for Jackie , in which she portrays Jacqueline Kennedy after John F Kennedy's assassination . The event styles itself as the start of the awards season , but is regarded with scepticism by some industry observers . Winners were announced in advance with no nominations . Many of the winning films have not yet been released and an anonymous panel chooses the recipients . But that did not stop an A-list crowd turning up to the ceremony , which was compered by TV host James Corden - although he did joke at one point that they were "" fake awards "" . The night was also peppered with references to Tuesday's US presidential election . "" Tonight is actually rigged , "" Corden told the audience at the Beverly Hilton Hotel , referring to Donald Trump's complaints about the election . "" Literally , none of this is real . "" He also joked that it was "" the last awards show before the apocalypse "" . Robert De Niro , who won the comedy award for the film The Comedian , compared Mr Trump to the "" totally insane "" General Jack D Ripper from Stanley Kubrick's Dr Strangelove . He said : "" It 's two days until a frightening election . The shadow of politics is hanging over us whether we like it or not . "" It 's hard for me to think about anything else so let me lay it out right here . We have the opportunity to prevent a comedy from turning into a tragedy . Vote for Hillary Tuesday . "" Tom Hanks won the best actor award for the film Sully , in which he played Captain Chesley Sullenberger , the pilot who safely landed a passenger plane on New York's Hudson River in 2009 . Nicole Kidman won the supporting actress award for Lion , while Hugh Grant was named best supporting actor for his role in Florence Foster Jenkins . He was presented with the award by Andie MacDowell , his co-star in the 1994 film Four Weddings And A Funeral . Addressing her on stage , Grant said : "" I 'm just depressed at how much better preserved you are than I am after 22 years . Do you use any special creams or anything like that ? "" It 's amazing . You 're still a southern peach and I am , according to Twitter , a scrotum . "" I almost never get a prize and I 'm so pleased with this one . It will not be in my loo or used as a doorstep . "" British actress Naomie Harris received the breakout actress award for her work in Moonlight , while Lily Collins , the daughter of singer Phil , was given the New Hollywood award for Rules Do n't Apply . Awards season kicks off in earnest when the Golden Globe nominations are announced on 12 December , and will culminate with the Oscars on 27 February ."	News
773	From stem cells to cancer : balancing immortality and neoplasia Keith , W.N. ( 2004 ) From stem cells to cancer : balancing immortality and neoplasia . Oncogene 23 ( 29 ) : pp. 5092-5094 . Full text of this document is not available in this ePrints Service . Abstract In this issue of Oncogene , Serakinci et al show that adult stem cells can be targets for neoplastic transformation . After transducing human adult mesenchymal stem cells ( hMSC ) with the telomerase hTERT gene , and growing them for many population doublings in culture , Serakinci et al observed that the transduced cells developed characteristics consistent with transformation including loss of contact inhibition , anchorage independence and tumour formation in mice . Underlying these changes were alterations to genes involved in cell cycle regulation and senescence as well as oncogene activation . The importance of these observations is twofold . Firstly , showing that stem cells can become tumours raises a note of caution for stem cell therapeutics . Secondly , the findings lend support to the stem cell hypothesis of cancer development , and provide an experimental system in which the tantalizing hint of new diagnostic , prognostic , and therapeutic opportunities offered by this concept can be explored further .	Information/Explanation
186	"Held at the Palais des Nations , Geneva , on Wednesday , 2 September 2009 , at 10.10 a . m . President : Mr. Christian STROHAL ( Austria ) The PRESIDENT : I declare open the 1157th plenary meeting of the Conference on Disarmament . It is a particular honour and pleasure for me to be able to welcome the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs of the Republic of Austria , Mr. Michael Spindelegger , to this Conference . Mr. Spindelegger has had a long career , in spite of his young age , in the Austrian Parliament and the European Parliament . He has been the Second President of the Austrian Parliament and the foreign policy spokesperson of the People's Party , and became a minister last year . We are delighted that he has made it to Geneva , where he has arrived at a busy time when we are preparing not only for the closure of this year's session of the Conference on Disarmament but also for the General Assembly of the United Nations , as well as for the relevant activities of the Security Council , on which Austria will be represented next year as a non-permanent member . I now give the floor to the minister . Mr. SPINDELEGGER ( Austria ) : Mr. President , Thank you for this opportunity to address the Conference on Disarmament today . Austria has assumed the presidency of the Conference at an important point in time . This year the Conference finally adopted a programme of work after more than a decade of stalemate . This is a positive , long overdue development . So I do not need to speak about deadlocks or the missed opportunities of the past . Let me focus on recent positive developments in arms control and disarmament and their implications for our future . The year 2009 has seen one paramount development : the goal of nuclear disarmament and the eventual total elimination of nuclear weapons has been put back on the global agenda . I welcome the five-point plan for disarmament proposed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations , Mr. Ban Ki-moon , which I had the opportunity to discuss with him a few days ago in Austria . I also welcome the recent positive statements that have been made by United States President Obama in Prague and Cairo and by Russian President Medvedev . And only a few weeks ago , Chinese Foreign Minister Yang underlined China's goal of a nuclear-weapon-free world here in this very room . Austria promoted the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons throughout the cold war , when only a few countries possessed nuclear capabilities . Since proliferation has introduced new threats from States and non-State actors , striving for this goal is now all the more necessary . Our vision is now shared by the most important nuclear powers . But how far has this vision been translated into concrete action ? We can identify two developments . First , direct bilateral negotiations : we see a renewed readiness to engage in bilateral negotiations . The commitment by President Obama and President Medvedev to negotiate a new strategic arms reduction treaty by the end of this year is a good example . Second , the global atmosphere in multilateral arms control negotiations has changed : preparations for the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons ( NPT ) show a markedly better atmosphere . Initiatives by States and civil society all around the world , such as the Security Council summit on nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament due to be held on 24 September , ensure global ownership and demonstrate a new readiness to engage in dialogue . But let me be clear : positive declarations , a good atmosphere and universal interest also need real implementation and compliance . The NPT can only fulfil its promise of peace if all States adhere to their obligations . Similarly the programme of work of the Conference on Disarmament needs to be implemented if it is to become a real achievement . This brings me to my next point - our expectations for the future . First let me start with the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty ( CTBT ) , a treaty which originated in this chamber . The deplorable nuclear test conducted by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in May has made clear that the entry into force of the CTBT is overdue . As Co-Chair , together with Costa Rica , Austria has been deeply involved in efforts to secure this goal over the past two years . Let me thus use this opportunity to appeal once again to those States that have not yet done so to accede to the CTBT as soon as possible . I am encouraged by the recent commitment of President Obama to pursue ratification by the United States , and also by China's comments in this regard . Let me appeal to all States to show their support for the treaty at the Article XIV conference in New York later this month , and to all delegation 's present to help ensure that their country participates . Second , Austria believes that a comprehensive fissile material cut-off treaty ( FMCT ) - a treaty that still has to emerge from this chamber - would significantly contribute to nuclear disarmament . Reliable techniques for monitoring and verification have been developed over the past years . The potential positive impact of such a treaty has been confirmed many times . The IAEA is ready to make an important contribution . It now requires the political will of Governments and the efforts of skilled negotiators to make it a reality . It is my sincere hope that the new spirit in the Conference on Disarmament will soon enable it to proceed with actual work and start negotiations on an FMCT . Finally , when we talk about expectations for the upcoming year , we must mention the NPT Review Conference , which will take place next May in New York . The Preparatory Committee has shown a willingness to achieve a meaningful outcome this time . Today , we see a broad understanding that the dangers of nuclear technology need to be contained in a manner that creates trust and confidence among all States . The Review Conference will demonstrate whether we are capable of transforming this positive atmosphere into real progress . Austria will present and support initiatives aimed at making substantial progress in nuclear disarmament , non-proliferation and a global system to effectively control the nuclear fuel cycle . This should help to avoid tensions such as the ones we are currently witnessing in regard to the nuclear programme of the Islamic Republic of Iran . Austria attaches great importance to arms control also in the area of conventional weapons such as landmines , cluster munitions and small arms and light weapons . Let me make three brief comments in this respect . First , with regard to landmines : Austria's objective for the Second Review Conference of the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention , to be held later this year in Cartagena , Columbia , is to work for a strong Cartagena action plan , which will serve as a clear guide to States and bring us closer to a world free of mines . One priority for us is to improve assistance to landmine survivors . In this respect Austria has sponsored - together with Norway and civil society partners - a project to examine the global impact of the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention and what remains to be done to improve the situation of survivors . The report will be presented here today right after this meeting . Let me just use this opportunity to encourage all States that have not yet done so to accede to the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention . It is time for the international community not only to review its stance on nuclear weapons but also to finally eradicate this terrible weapon . Second , with regard to cluster munitions : I encourage States to ratify the Convention on Cluster Munitions . So far 17 States have ratified it . It is our strong hope that the Convention will receive the necessary 30 ratifications to enter into force before the end of this year . To support this , Austria has engaged in a worldwide campaign and will support a conference on cluster munitions in Indonesia in November . Third , with regard to small arms and light weapons : these are a major security threat in parts of the world . Former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan once called them the "" real weapons of mass destruction "" . Every year , hundreds of thousands of people are killed by them . The United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent , Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects is a significant step forward . Austria supports its implementation on the ground , especially in Africa . To stop the illicit arms trade , Austria supports the conclusion of a legally-binding international arms trade treaty . As a producing and exporting country of small arms , Austria feels a special responsibility to engage in this process and will also host the concluding conference of the global joint project of the European Union and the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research in February 2010 . We hope that the conference in Vienna will provide positive momentum and enable the conclusion of a treaty in the near future . One thing is clear : there is no lack of work in the field of arms control and disarmament today and the international community is responding positively . In order to succeed , I count not only on the new flexibility of the nuclear-weapon States and the constructive contributions of all the other States , but also on the commitment and expertise of civil society . Throughout the years , non-governmental organizations and private citizens have remained important motors of the disarmament and arms control process . Austria has always underlined that disarmament and arms control must be an open , participatory process if it is to succeed . Protecting the world from the harm caused by weapons is a global project and needs active support from all of us . In this respect , I would like to thank the Secretary-General of the Conference for his tireless efforts , and this year's other presidencies - Viet Nam , Zimbabwe , Algeria , Argentina and Australia - for their excellent cooperation in the Conference on Disarmament . I wish the Conference the necessary energy for a good conclusion to this year's session and an early and effective resumption next year . The PRESIDENT : I thank the minister for his statement . Before adjourning this plenary meeting , let me just make two brief announcements . The first is , as mentioned , at 11 a . m . in this chamber , the minister will launch the report "" Voices from the Ground "" , a report in which victims of landmines and explosive remnants of war will speak out on victim assistance . The next plenary meeting of the Conference will be held tomorrow at 11 a . m . in this chamber . At that time , the Chairman-Designate of the First Committee of the General Assembly , Ambassador José Luis Cancela of Uruguay , will deliver a statement . This plenary meeting is adjourned . The meeting rose at 10.25 a . m . ( Mr. Spindelegger , ( Austria ) ( Mr. Spindelegger , ( Austria )"	Opinion/Argumentation
610	Subject : I miss my dad 1 year has past since my dad committed suicide . I was never able to talk about it , never even dealt with it . It just seemed like alls I could do is block it out of my head . I miss him so much . I have so many questions that nobody can answer . I just never thought he would have done this to me . I come here and read everyone's stories , It 's so sad that we are now the ones suffering . I miss you so much dad I wish you would have tried to talk to me before you left us . I love you dad . Reply from : ( anon ) Subject : Your dad I do n't know quite wot to say , ure not alone on this and you need to talk to your family every day . U 'll have some wonderful memories of your dad and should stick with them , as that is the dad that you know , and will always know . Be good to yourself and know that he would n't have done this to you if he had known how this would have affected you . Take care , xx	Opinion/Argumentation
252	TENTSMUIR - FUN FOR ALL THE FAMILY 23rd June 2006 The Tentsmuir NNR celebration is suitable for all but families are especially welcome . Booking is essential as places go fast , but places are free ( no dogs please ) . The activities , which are also all free , include : · Mini-beast hunts for children over 8 · Curly caterpillar needs your help activity for under 5s · Nature One for the under 7s · Nature sculptures on the beach · Sketch and paint for adults and the older child · Viewpoint binoculars and telescopes - SNH staff on hand to answer questions · Guided walk - find out why the reserve is so special , from butterflies to seals · Storyteller - Amu Logtse and his amazing drums The reserve is a large area of grassy sand dunes and the huge Abertay Sands sand bar which stretches eastward from the landward tip of Tentsmuir . Sediment from the sand bar dries and blows westwards on the wind adding to the land . This is then stabilised by plants such as sea rocket , lyme grass and marram grass and becomes new land . There are free refreshments , including a free picnic lunch , and a free coach from the Forest Enterprise operated car park through the forest to the reserve . The Forest Enterprise car park costs one pound for parking . To book places for the day phone 01382 553704 and leave a name , address and telephone number and the number of places to be booked . Places are only secured if the reserve manager phones callers and confirms the booking . Tom Cunningham , SNH's Tentsmuir reserve manager , said : ' A visit to Tentsmuir is a chance to find out about the history , flowers , birds and animals here and to have a really good day out . I hope that people will book early for the day as it will be lots of fun with plenty to do and well worth coming to . ' The reserve is home to large groups of wildfowl and waders such as pink footed geese , bar tailed godwits , grey plovers and the largest gathering of eider ducks in Britain . It is also used by thousands of grey and common seals . Plants on the dune grassland include yellow bird's foot trefoil , pink ragged robin , violets , purple northern marsh orchid and white grass of Parnassus . Among the plants are hundreds of butterflies and moths such as day flying burnet moths . Further information Further information : Heather Kinnin , press & public relations officer , Scottish Natural Heritage 0131 446 2274 or email heather . k innin @ SNH . g ov . u k Tom Cunningham , reserve manager , Scottish Natural Heritage 01382 553704 . Notes for editors Notes for editors : 1 . S cottish Natural Heritage is the government body with respect to conservation , enhancement , enjoyment , understanding and sustainable use of Scotland's natural heritage . It works for and with Scotland's people . Website www . s nh . o rg . u k 2 . T entsmuir NNR is 1.5 miles east of Tayport or 1.2 miles north of the Forest Enterprise car park at Kinshaldy off the B945 Tayport / Leuchars road . 3 . Scottish Natural Heritage's National Nature Reserve website is at www . n nr-scotland . o rg . u k | © Scottish Natural Heritage 2005 | Send to a friend | Copyright and terms of use	Promotion
1120	"We noticed that you 're using an unsupported browser . The TripAdvisor website may not display properly . We support the following browsers : Windows : Internet Explorer , Mozilla Firefox , Google Chrome . Mac : Safari . Book your hotel on TripAdvisor and you could win a great trip ! Hotel 41 41 Buckingham Palace Road , London SW1W 0PS , England Special Offer Save up to 33 % Book on Trusted partner . We work with to make your booking as easy as possible . Secure payments . We use industry-leading practices to keep your information secure . Book on Enter dates for best prices powered by Best prices for : 1 room Check In - Check Out 1 room 2 rooms 1 guest 2 guests Check In Check Out Check In Check Out Please enter your travel dates to continue Check Availability Book on or compare prices from up to 200 sites including : TripAdvisor members only . Login for exclusive access to hotel deals up to 40 % off Rooms & rates for Hotel 41 We 're finding you the best rooms at the lowest prices from our partner . Book on Check In Check Out 1 room 2 guests 4 Standard Room Getting you more information on this room See More Free Cancellation Best Price / night taxes & fees Select Show available rooms for Hotel 41 We 're sorry , there are no available rooms for this property on TripAdvisor . Please change dates or see offers from our partners . 2,473 Reviews from our TripAdvisor Community Read reviews that mention : All reviews the executive lounge buckingham palace private club conservatory suite romantic turndown royal mews complimentary snacks rose petals champagne on arrival red carnation honesty bar victoria station moment you arrive turn down service little touches lounge area turndown service fifth floor pleasure of staying separate shower Review tags are currently only available for English language reviews . Could n't find a single flaw in this hotel . Absolutely recommend it to anyone . The service was really kind , everything was clean and the food was also great ! There is no place for disappointment here ! Would visit again . This is one of the best hotels we have ever stayed in . The room was large , stylish and beautifully furnished ; we were treated like royalty at breakfast , the service were impeccable ; a wonderful location and the well appointed bar encouraged us to stay in hotel . This hotel certainly has the formula right . A huge rush to return to our London home - Hotel 41 - as we prepared for our granddaughter's christening . Our son flew in from his home abroad and we were reunited in the Executive Lounge , where the team discreetly poured champagne as we happily embraced . We spent the day catching up with family matters and relaxed royally in the ... More Creature comforts galore-hot water bottle in your turned down bed , candle lit in bathroom , perfect pillows , sheets and duvets , saran wrapped remote controls , clean relaxing room , plenty of product , beautiful lounge for guests of "" 41 "" only . Lounge is stunning , quiet , with nice wines , liquors and munchies if you 're hungry . Staff ca n't do enough for you from start to finish and ... More We stayed in the 41 Hotel seven nights in August . The experience was excellent . The hotel's location was ideal for us with easy access to the tube and easy walking distance to restaurants and shopping . The staff and their overall service was wonderful . I generally hold the impression nice hotels in Europe particularly in European cities and especially in London ... More Amazing hotel ! All staff are very welcoming and helpful . Especially Steve the bartender , very good service and friendly ! Room was lovely and clean . Food was great ! Perfect location . Staff helpful at getting you a round the city . We chose the 41 hotel based on its tripadvisor status and were definitely not disappointed . An excellent , intimate hotel , with lovely staff . Make sure to make the most of the executive lounge , the constant supply of delicious food means you really get your money's worth ! The rooms were beautiful too , luxurious and spacious , just right . Definitely looking forward to coming ... More We booked this hotel as a birthday treat for my daughters birthday . When arriving there the hotel is easily missed as there is only one real marker on the street showing its location . That would be my only minor criticism . On arrival our , we were greeted at the front desk ( not the check in desk as this was in the ... More My daughter booked this hotel for us as a special treat for my birthday and oh my this is a very special place . I have never experienced service like this . From the moment we entered the hotel we were welcomed with warmth and smiles and birthday wishes . Our luggage was whisked away from us and we were escorted by Mitch ... More This was one of the best hotels that we have stayed at . We felt welcome from the moment we drove up . We were offered a glass of champagne or water or coffee upon arrival . We requested early check in and our room was ready at 10am when we arrived . The staff was friendly and attentive and truly nice people . The ... More Staying in Westminster Neighbourhood Profile Westminster If you only had an afternoon to experience London on a grand scale , Westminster would be a wise place to start . The ornate Houses of Parliament and Westminster Abbey sit adjacent at a corner of Parliament Square , and a short stroll along The Mall leads to Buckingham Palace . Trafalgar Square and Nelson's Column are just up the road as well . As captivating as the architecture is , the wonders of Mother Nature are highlights of the area too . St James's Park ( arguably London's loveliest ) , the expansive Green Park , and pedestrian friendly tree lined paths along the river showcase the exquisite manicure provided by English gardeners . Just beyond the landmarks and the gorgeous outdoor spaces , quiet residential squares and age old local pubs offer a more subdued take on this global seat of power in the heart of London . Amenities Highlights Free High Speed Internet ( WiFi ) Room Service Bar / Lounge GreenPartner Learn More Green Partners meet the programme's minimum requirements for environmental activities , but have not yet qualified for a Green Leader badge . The set of requirements include having a towel and linen re-use programme , using energy-efficient light bulbs , tracking energy usage , recycling , and educating staff and guests on green practices . About the property Pets Allowed ( Dog / Pet Friendly ) Things to do Bar / Lounge Room types Suites Non-Smoking Rooms Family Rooms In your room Air Conditioning Minibar Internet Free Internet Free High Speed Internet ( WiFi ) Paid Wifi Services Room Service Dry Cleaning Meeting Rooms Laundry Service Concierge Business Centre with Internet Access Official Description ( provided by the hotel ) Luxury hotel with club like atmosphere & 21st century business technology ; near Buckingham Palace & Westend theatre .... more less Additional Information about Hotel 41 Address : 41 Buckingham Palace Road , London SW1W 0PS , England Region : United Kingdom > England > London > Westminster Price Range : £ 297 - £ 853 ( Based on Average Rates for a Standard Room ) Hotel Class : 5 star – Hotel 41 5 * Number of rooms : 20 Reservation Options : TripAdvisor is proud to partner with Hotels.com , Booking.com , Expedia and Agoda so you can book your Hotel 41 reservations with confidence . We help millions of travellers each month to find the perfect hotel for both holiday and business trips , always with the best discounts and special offers . Also Known As : 41 Hotel London Hotel Style : # 1 Family Hotel in London # 1 Luxury Hotel in London # 1 Romantic Hotel in London # 6 Business Hotel in London Is This Your TripAdvisor Listing ? Own or manage this property ? Claim your listing for free to respond to reviews , update your profile and much more . Questions & Answers Here 's what travellers have asked , with answers from Hotel 41 staff and other travellers . * TripAdvisor LLC is not a booking agent and does not charge any service fees to users of our site ... ( more ) We noticed that you 're using an unsupported browser . The TripAdvisor website may not display properly . We support the following browsers : Windows : Internet Explorer , Mozilla Firefox , Google Chrome . Mac : Safari . TripAdvisor LLC is not responsible for content on external web sites . Taxes , fees not included for deals content . Price Finder is your ultimate hotel booking tool , checking hundreds of sites to help you find the lowest prices . How to enter the "" Book a Stay , Win a Getaway "" sweepstakes : • Book your hotel directly on TripAdvisor . Find your ideal hotel on TripAdvisor . co. uk , then look for "" TripAdvisor "" in the list of pricing options . Select your room and then complete your booking right here on TripAdvisor , without leaving our site . Once you 've booked , you 'll be entered automatically . • Or , book your hotel by clicking off to any partner site from TripAdvisor . Once your booking is complete , use the entry form to enter . How it works : • One ( 1 ) entry per person during the entry period . No purchase necessary . • Entry period begins on 18 October 2016 00 : 01am EST and ends on 20 November 2016 23 : 59pm EST . • "" Book a Stay , Win a Getaway "" is open to legal residents of the United States and United Kingdom who are 18 years of age or older . • A random drawing will be conducted on or about 22 November 2016 by the Administrator from all eligible entries received during the entry period . • Winners will be notified by 9 December 2016 . Learn more . close Welcome back ! Prices may have changed while you were gone . Please refresh the page to see the latest prices for Hotel 41 . Refresh Prices TripAdvisor uses cookies to improve your site experience . Learn more or change your settings . By continuing , you consent to our cookies ."	Promotion
1426	Latexotica – Sophia Another fresh week and time for one more new latexotica image gallery for you to enjoy this fine afternoon . In this one we have a bit of a treat for you as we bring you a nice and hot woman doing her outdoor posing in the latex outfit that she has . Her name is Sophia and she makes no small deal of her infatuation for the superb and sexy material . Oh and this cutie will put on quite the sow today for you . This hot fetishist model wants to make sure that everyone can see just how how and sexy she looks while wearing her outfits . This superb hottie says that she never has trouble getting guys to lose it over her on a regular basis . And let's just say that if she makes her appearance dressed like she is today on a regular basis , then that 's no real surprise . And be sure that she knows just how hot she is . Well let 's just watch her as she will do her superb posing session for you guys today . Watch her as she goes around the yard showing off her latex dress set today just for you . We hope that we 'll have her here again once more in the future with another latexotica gallery for us . Bye bye !	Promotion
886	This page is exclusively for Educational , Academic and Training membership Special Interest Group ( SIG ) GROUP AIMS AND OBJECTIVES - To promote and encourage co-operation and communication between the many Academic groups in the UK with an interest in robotics . Please help us by emailing your requests and ideas for this area . EDUCATION AND TRAINING SIG MEMBERSHIP EXAMPLES Cranfield University Department of Trade and Industry The Open University Robotica Limited University of Birmingham Universidade do Minho University of Plymouth University of Warwick The Welding Institute	Promotion
1463	Meta Trader 4 – Forex Trading Platform Metatrader 4 is the most popular forex trading platform currently available . The platform connects thousands of traders around the world to the forex market and the forth edition has quickly gained recognition as the premier forex platform . MetaTrader 4 is developed by the company MetaQuotes , which also delivers the real time data feed and market prices . The choice of both professionals and amateurs alike , Metatrader offers a secure , stable and advanced connection to the forex interbank market . MetaTrader is a very efficient and stable platform and has a track record of less than 1 % downtime due to loss of connection or technical problems . This allows the forex trader to feel comfortable that technical issues will not interfere with trading . The Metatrader platform has all the functions that a forex trader could wish for , yet the platform never feels confusing or clustered and the interface is intuitive and easy to get hang of , even for beginners . Metatrader has in it 's new edition added usability for handheld devices such as PDA's and Palm pilots . The real time market price data in MetaTrader comes from the live data stream from MetaQuotes and is updated immediately , which means no lag and perfect conditions even when heavy trading is taking place . This is a clear advantage over those platforms which rely on data from brokers , as you can be sure that you are looking at the same price data that the rest of the world is looking at . MetaTrader is most commonly used as a forex trading platform , but is not exclusive used for this purpose . It 's also used to trade derivatives such as CFD's , futures , options and even stocks . More than 100 brokers currently use MetaTrader as their platform . What really sets MetaTrader apart from other platforms is the advanced charting software , which has nice detailed graphs and graphics and is second to none . Another advantage is that most forex software , such as signals and robots are designed and written exclusively for this platform , as MetaTrader has it 's own macro programming code , which has an active community that has developed many interesting applications . Traders that prefer forex expert advisors or other automated forex trading systems , will be pleased that there is an abundance of choice of forex EA's and robots developed for the MetaTrader platform . As the code is readily available , there are constantly new robots being made and an open source EA project , where members strive to improve upon the original EA's . In conclusion , MetaTrader is the best choice for any serious forex trader . The interface , the community , the customization options all enable forex traders to trade as profitable as possible .	Promotion
411	"1 . The employer must draw up a plan to decide who will be kept on and who will be made redundant and why . 2 . The employer must inform the workforce as soon as possible , so they have a chance put forward alternatives or apply for other jobs with the current employer or with another employer . 3 . The employer should consider any proposals that the employee's or their representatives make as an alternative to redundancy . 4 . The employer should decide as soon as possible how many employees will be made redundant . Consulting 1 . The employer must consult the employee's representatives ( this includes Unions ) if 20 or more people are going to be made redundant . 2 . The employer must discuss alternatives to redundancy and the selection criteria for redundancy . 3 . The employer can carry on the redundancy procedures whilst the consultation is going on ( for example , sending out redundancy notices to the effected employees ) . However , the employer should not issue redundancy notices before he has had a chance to consult properly . 4 .. If the employer does not consult properly the Employment Tribunal can make the employer pay a ' Protective Award ' . This states that the employer must keep the employees on and must pay their wages for a certain amount of time ( whether they actually remain working or not ) . The length of this Protective Award period is usually fairly short . Department of Trade and Industry The employer must consult the Department of Trade and Industry ( D. T. I. ) 30 days before dismissal if they are going to make between 20 - 99 employees redundant . Or 90 days if over 100 are to be dismissed . One of the reasons for this is so that the DTI can compile accurate employment statistics and records . Selection Procedure If a group of employees are selected for redundancy the employer must show what type of work they do and why the demand for that work has decreased or stopped completely . If the amount of work has decreased so that only some of the employees within a group are selected , the employer must show how they picked those unlucky ones . The employer must show in detail the selection procedure and criteria . This can range from "" last in first out "" to a scoring system , with the employer giving points for certain job skills . The selection criteria should not be based upon an individual's view of each employee ( for example , what the personnel manager thinks ) Once the criteria has been agreed it should be kept to . The employer should also try and agree the selection criteria with the employees' representatives or Union . The selection procedure and criteria can not be based upon unfair reasons such as : Trade Union membership or activity . If the selection criteria is based upon Race , Disability or Sex the effected employee can claim under Unfair Dismissal or the relevant discrimination law . The employer must consult each effected employee before dismissal notices are handed out , so that there is a chance of real consultation and time for the employee to respond . The selected group may change due to the consultation process ."	Legal
909	"Hark , he 's singing ! Its his favorite amusement . "" And once more those shrill discordant tones rang out : -- "" He thought he saw a Banker's Clerk Descending from the bus : He looked again , and found it was A Hippopotamus : ' If this should stay to dine , ' he said , ' There wo n't be mutch for us ! ' "" Throwing away the spade , he broke into a frantic jig , snapping his fingers , and repeating , again and again , "" There wo n't be much for us ! There wo n't be much for us ! "" [ Image ... It was a hippoptamus ] Once more the Baron looked slightly offended , but the Vice-Warden hastily explained that the song had no allusion to him , and in fact had no meaning at all . "" You did n't mean anything by it , now did you ? "" He appealed to the Gardener , who had finished his song , and stood , balancing himself on one leg , and looking at them , with his mouth open . "" I never means nothing , "" said the Gardener : and Uggug luckily came up at the moment , and gave the conversation a new turn . "" Allow me to present my son , "" said the Vice-warden ; adding , in a whisper , "" one of the best and cleverest boys that ever lived ! I 'll contrive for you to see some of his cleverness . He knows everything that other boys do n't know ; and in archery , in fishing , in painting , and in music , his skill is--but you shall judge for yourself . You see that target over there ? He shall shoot an arrow at it . Dear boy , "" he went on aloud , "" his Adiposity would like to see you shoot . Bring his Highness' bow and arrows ! "" Uggug looked very sulky as he received the bow and arrow , and prepared to shoot . Just as the arrow left the bow , the Vice-Warden trod heavily on the toe of the Baron , who yelled with the pain . "" Ten thousand pardons ! "" he exclaimed . "" I stepped back in my excitement . See ! It is a bull's - eye ! "" The Baron gazed in astonishment . "" He held the bow so awkwardly , it seemed impossible ! "" he muttered . But there was no room for doubt : there was the arrow , right in the centre of the bull's - eye ! "" The lake is close by , "" continued the Vice-warden . "" Bring his Highness' fishing-rod ! "" And Uggug most unwillingly held the rod , and dangled the fly over the water . "" A beetle on your arm ! "" cried my Lady , pinching the poor Baron's arm worse than if ten lobsters had seized it at once . "" That kind is poisonous , "" she explained . "" But what a pity ! You missed seeing the fish pulled out ! "" An enormous dead cod-fish was lying on the bank , with the hook in its mouth . "" I had always fancied , "" the Baron faltered , "" that cod were salt-water fish ? "" "" Not in this country , "" said the Vice-Warden . "" Shall we go in ? Ask my son some question on the way any subject you like ! "" And the sulky boy was violently shoved forwards , to walk at the Baron's side . "" Could your Highness tell me , "" the Baron cautiously began , "" how much seven times nine would come to ? "" "" Turn to the left ! "" cried the Vice-Warden , hastily stepping forwards to show the way---so hastily , that he ran against his unfortunate guest , who fell heavily on his face . "" So sorry ! "" my Lady exclaimed , as she and her husband helped him to his feet again . "" My son was in the act of saying ' sixty-three ' as you fell ! "" The Baron said nothing : he was covered with dust , and seemed much hurt , both in body and mind . However , when they had got him into the house , and given him a good brushing , matters looked a little better . Dinner was served in due course , and every fresh dish seemed to increase the good-humour of the Baron : but all efforts , to get him to express his opinion as to Uggug's cleverness , were in vain , until that interesting youth had left the room , and was seen from the open window , prowling about the lawn with a little basket , which he was filling with frogs . "" So fond of Natural History as he is , dear boy ! "" said the doting mother . "" Now do tell us , Baron , what you think of him ! "" "" To be perfectly candid , said the cautious Baron , "" I would like a little more evidence . I think you mentioned his skill in -- "" "" Music ? "" said the Vice-Warden ."	Prose/Lyrical
1215	"EU puts UK-Nissan deal under scrutiny The European Commission says it is in contact with UK authorities after Japan's Nissan said it had been given "" support and assurances "" over Brexit . Nissan's commitment to its Sunderland car plant , the UK's biggest , had been in doubt following the EU referendum . But after government pledges , Nissan is to build two key models in the UK . "" We have seen the press reports regarding Nissan and as a result the Commission ... is in contact with the UK authorities , "" a spokesman said . UK Business Secretary Greg Clark has said Nissan was told that the government would seek tariff-free access to EU markets for the car industry . However , the agreement has raised fears that the government might have breached EU rules preventing unfair state aid to companies . The Commission spokesman said : "" The UK authorities have not notified any support to Nissan for assessment under our state aid rules and we 've therefore not taken any formal view of this matter . "" Depending on the terms of the UK's exit from the EU , Britain may well no longer be bound by EU state aid rules following Brexit . But as long as it remains a member , the UK would not be able to favour particular companies . Mr Clark has insisted that that there was "" no cheque book "" involved in the assurances given to Nissan ."	News
910	"Darcy then was . She longed to know what at the moment was passing in his mind--in what manner he thought of her , and whether , in defiance of everything , she was still dear to him . Perhaps he had been civil only because he felt himself at ease ; yet there had been THAT in his voice which was not like ease . Whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing her she could not tell , but he certainly had not seen her with composure . At length , however , the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind aroused her , and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself . They entered the woods , and bidding adieu to the river for a while , ascended some of the higher grounds ; when , in spots where the opening of the trees gave the eye power to wander , were many charming views of the valley , the opposite hills , with the long range of woods overspreading many , and occasionally part of the stream . Mr. Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole park , but feared it might be beyond a walk . With a triumphant smile they were told that it was ten miles round . It settled the matter ; and they pursued the accustomed circuit ; which brought them again , after some time , in a descent among hanging woods , to the edge of the water , and one of its narrowest parts . They crossed it by a simple bridge , in character with the general air of the scene ; it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet visited ; and the valley , here contracted into a glen , allowed room only for the stream , and a narrow walk amidst the rough coppice-wood which bordered it . Elizabeth longed to explore its windings ; but when they had crossed the bridge , and perceived their distance from the house , Mrs. Gardiner , who was not a great walker , could go no farther , and thought only of returning to the carriage as quickly as possible . Her niece was , therefore , obliged to submit , and they took their way towards the house on the opposite side of the river , in the nearest direction ; but their progress was slow , for Mr. Gardiner , though seldom able to indulge the taste , was very fond of fishing , and was so much engaged in watching the occasional appearance of some trout in the water , and talking to the man about them , that he advanced but little . Whilst wandering on in this slow manner , they were again surprised , and Elizabeth's astonishment was quite equal to what it had been at first , by the sight of Mr. Darcy approaching them , and at no great distance . The walk here being here less sheltered than on the other side , allowed them to see him before they met . Elizabeth , however astonished , was at least more prepared for an interview than before , and resolved to appear and to speak with calmness , if he really intended to meet them . For a few moments , indeed , she felt that he would probably strike into some other path . The idea lasted while a turning in the walk concealed him from their view ; the turning past , he was immediately before them . With a glance , she saw that he had lost none of his recent civility ; and , to imitate his politeness , she began , as they met , to admire the beauty of the place ; but she had not got beyond the words "" delightful , "" and "" charming , "" when some unlucky recollections obtruded , and she fancied that praise of Pemberley from her might be mischievously construed . Her colour changed , and she said no more . Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind ; and on her pausing , he asked her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends . This was a stroke of civility for which she was quite unprepared ; and she could hardly suppress a smile at his being now seeking the acquaintance of some of those very people against whom his pride had revolted in his offer to herself . "" What will be his surprise , "" thought she , "" when he knows who they are ? He takes them now for people of fashion . "" The introduction , however , was immediately made ; and as she named their relationship to herself , she stole a sly look at him , to see how he bore it , and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he could from such disgraceful companions ."	Prose/Lyrical
663	"The Maersk Company Limited is a UK and Ireland division of the A.P. Moller - Maersk Group of companies which employs over 60 000 people in over 100 companies in a wide range of industries . Links to homepages of companies within the A.P. Moller - Maersk Group are available in the drop down menu in the bar above . The Maersk Company Limited is a company within the AP Moller-Maersk Group , one of the world's most well-known shipping companies . In addition to the shipping , the Group also operates in the oil and gas , and retail sectors , and has a presence in over 100 countries . "" The A.P. Moller - Maersk Group"	Promotion
968	In Branch If you are under 21 , apply for your account at your local Alliance & Leicester branch . Find your nearest branch . When applying for an account at a branch , you will need to take with you 2 forms of ID . We will not be able to set up your account without them . Find out what information we need and why . If you have an Alliance & Leicester Current Account or U18 Cashcard Account , you can simply upgrade your account by contacting our Customer Service Centre . The telephone number can be found on the front of your current account statement .	Instruction
1303	Jury Instruction Corner By Thomas Lundy Duplicity – Part Four Appellate Review of Specific Unanimity Claims This is the fourth installment of Jury Instruction Corner on duplicity and juror unanimity . The first article discussed the constitutional and statutory underpinnings of the doctrine , the second suggested a methodology for determining when a specific unanimity instruction may be necessary , and the third discussed juror unanimity issues in the context of predicate or preliminary facts . This final article will discuss issues related to appellate review of specific unanimity claims . 1 Cognizability and Standard of Review If trial counsel objected and / or made instruction requests that preserved the specific unanimity claim , then there should be no cognizability problem on appeal and typically it will be considered under the abuse of discretion standard . 2 However , even if the claim was not raised below , it may still be cognizable on appeal . Specific juror unanimity relates to the fairness of the trial and Want to read more ?	Information/Explanation
664	ENQUIRY AND ADVICE : Usually arrive via telephone and email . Free advice is always offered on the most suitable and cost-effective process to meet your requirements . QUOTE : Depending upon the enquiry , we usually provide immediate quotes . However , all enquiries are dealt with same day where possible . ARTWORK : The Graphics Department can produce finished artwork from a variety of formats . Printing is carried out using laser technology . PRODUCTION : A test print is made and checked prior to full production . When the Production Manager has approved the test print , your order goes into final production . INSPECTION : 100 % inspection , throughout production , ensures orders are produced to the highest standards . DESPATCH : Customers are welcome to collect their order or have us arrange delivery , charged at cost . Print Home | Products | Submit an enquiry | The order journey | What our customers say | Contact us	Promotion
1269	"Agent Richard Agundez , a true American hero , the School Resource Officer who answered the call to defend his students against an attack by one of their own . "" I am thankful that no one was killed at Granite Hills . "" Agent Richard Agundez , the SRO hero who successfully stopped a sniper attack at one of the schools he served . Click to learn more ... Agent Richard Agundez , the School Resource Officer at Granite Hills High who became a personal hero to hundreds of students in El Cajon and a national icon of selfless professionalism when he ended the sniper attack at the school in his charge by one of their own . Click to Learn more ... Frank G. Green , Mental Health Therapist , Executive Director for Keys To Safer Schools.com . Mr. Green a 20 year retried military Officer . He gained valuable first hand experience in dealing with international terrorists and helped develop procedures for counter-terrorism . Other areas of expertise is his 15 years as a Mental Health Therapist . Click to Learn more ... Bo Munthe , School Safety Professional from Sweden and a member of IASSP ( International Association of School Safety Professionals ) . SAD NOTE : Bo has undergone bypass surgery and has been advised not to travel . He is sending a greeting and his presentation electronically . We wish Bo a speedy recovery and send our regrets for his absence . Click to Learn more ... ** Do Not Call the Resort for Reservations : Use the FAX or Email reservation form . This special rate has been extended to our guests who wish to arrive early and / or stay through the weekend if you would like to bring your family . Enjoy the entertainment and attractions of Orlando , Kissimmee and central Florida . Other lodging locations and price ranges are available through this same agency . Top"	News
502	"Monday , 25 November , 2002 , 15 : 06 GMT Lords defy Blunkett on life sentences Jail terms ' should be determined by judges ' The home secretary's power to increase the minimum sentence handed down to convicted murderers is "" incompatible "" with human rights laws , the Law Lords have ruled . This is the first step towards taking away the powers home secretaries have to extend the length of time murderers must serve before they can apply for parole in England and Wales . Murderers' cases that could be reviewed : Dennis Nilsen - killed 15 men Rose West - murdered 10 young women , including her eldest daughter Heather , 16 . Arthur Hutchinson - killed a solicitor , his wife and their son and raped their daughter during a burglary Jeremy Bamber - killed his adoptive parents , his step-sister and her six-year-old twin sons In a test case affecting 225 prisoners , a specially convened panel of seven Law Lords accepted the argument by defence lawyers that judges should be handed back the task of fixing minimum tariffs for prisoners serving life for murder . Lord Bingham said the power exercised by the home secretary to decide how long sentences should be , was "" incompatible "" with article six of the European Convention on Human Rights - the right of a convicted person to have a sentence imposed by an independent and impartial tribunal . But Home Secretary David Blunkett has promised new laws to establish a set of principles which judges will use to fix minimum tariffs in the future . Killers' case Home Office Minister Hilary Benn says Parliament must still have a say in the penalties for certain crimes . "" In certain cases , the most heinous crimes , for example , the sexual and sadistic murder of children - life should mean life , "" he told BBC News 24 . "" And we need to make sure that Parliament retains accountability for the framework of sentencing , while recognising that judges will in future hand down sentences for individual cases . "" Raising killers' hopes ? Click here to read The test case was brought by three convicted killers , including double murderer Anthony Anderson , who was jailed in 1988 . Mr Anderson claimed his human rights have been breached by the increase of his minimum prison sentence to 20 years , after his trial judge had recommended 15 . His success could open the way for appeals by 70 prisoners who have already served the minimum tariff set out by the trial judge , but who are now serving additional time set by the home secretary . Many prisoners could sue the government . Whiting : Likely to die in jail It could also open the way for more than 20 murderers with "" whole life "" tariffs to have new minimum terms decided by the Lord Chief Justice , Lord Woolf . Mr Blunkett has insisted that he would not see the most notorious killers , like Harold Shipman , released from prison . He believes "" life means life "" and if this judgement goes against him , he will simply change the law . Brady : Unlikely to ever be released On Saturday , Mr Blunkett announced that Roy Whiting - convicted of murdering eight-year-old Sarah Payne - should serve a 50-year minimum jail term . However the House of Lords ruling is unlikely to affect Whiting since his original trial judge , Mr Justice Richard Curtis , said at the time that it was a rare case in which he would recommend a life sentence meaning life . Staying inside Rose West was jailed in 1995 for a minimum of 25 years for the "" house of horrors "" murders of 10 women , but the home secretary later decided on a whole life tariff . This ruling has no imminent impact on Rose . She has said that she does not want to come out . Leo Goatley Rose West's solicitor Her solicitor , Leo Goatley , told BBC News Online : "" This ruling has no imminent impact on Rose . She has said that she does not want to come out . "" The case comes too late for Moors murder Myra Hindley , who died in prison earlier this month for her part in the killing of five children . Her partner in crime , Ian Brady , would be an unlikely candidate for appeal . The judge in Brady's case recommended he serve a whole-life tariff . Shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin said he thought the current system had been "" operating well "" . The government's current predicament was as a result of its introduction of human rights legislation , he said ."	News
1448	Harvesting and Storing Herbs HARVESTING YOUR HERBS Harvesting herbs will promote new growth , so is to be encouraged . There are a few rules to ensure you get the best harvest possible : Always harvest from clean healthy plant material Flowering herbs are in their peak condition just before flowering so pick then , unless it 's the flowers you want Try and harvest herbs in the morning on a dry day and after the dew has done Annual herbs such as Coriander , Basil can usually be harvested two or three times in a season Perennial Herbs such as Rosemary , Sage after the first year can be harvested throughout the year Flowers for drying are usually picked in bud When harvesting roots it is not necessary to destroy the whole plant , just cut away what you need and replant the plant . PRESERVING YOUR HERBS There are several methods for preserving and storing Herbs that can easily be carried out at home , with little if any specialist equipment . Drying Herbs Herbs can be air dried , a technique used in many countries The ideal place is dry and well ventilated , free from dust and fumes An airing cupboard , an attic or under the eaves are all good places Do NOT dry herbs in the sun as this will evaporate all the precious volatile oils A constant temperature of 20o - 32o C is ideal Speed is of the essence NOTE : If the herbs turn black or go mouldy then throw them away as the drying process has failed and the herbs are not worth keeping Oven Drying Herbs Place clean and dry roots on a baking tray and dry at 50 o – 60o C for between 2-3 hours depending upon the amount and size of herbs you are drying Microwave Drying Care has to be taken when drying herbs in a microwave Generally it takes about 1-4 minutes to dry approximately 10 sprigs of herbs , depending upon the type of herb , small leaved herbs such as thyme take less time It is very easy to overcook herbs using this method NEVER dry Sage using this method as it ignites ! Storing Dried Herbs It is better to store dried herbs in a dark cupboard as light destroys the quality of the herb The shelf life of dried herbs is generally about 12 months , if they smell musty then throw them away NOTE : There are a number of purpose made Dehydrators that can be bought for drying all types of food . Herbs dry particularly well in these Freezing Herbs Freezing is an excellent method for storing herbs as it helps retain colour , flavour and nutritional content . There are two ways to freeze herbs : Place finely chopped herbs in an ice-cube tray and top up with water . Each ice cube hold about 1 tablespoon of herbs and a teaspoon of water NOTE : Individual herb flowers , such as borage , Lavender or leaves such as mint can all be frozen in individual cubes to add flavour and interest to summer drinks HERBAL OILS & VINEGARS Herbs have been preserved in oils and vinegars for centuries . Herb Oils and Vinegars can be used in salads , sauces , dressings and marinades . Herb Oils and Vinegars can be made with some basic equipment and can look attractive if you can find some old bottles to store the oils and vinegars . Herbal Oils Loosely fill a clean glass jar ( Kilner type is best ) with the herb of your choice and fill with good quality oil – olive or sunflower Strain the contents to remove the herbs and fill clean bottles , adding a sprig of the herb for identification , although it 's best to label and date as well A variety of herbs are suitable to make oils : Basil , Rosemary , Dill , Lemon Thyme , Fennel , Sage NOTE : Care must always be taken when making herbal oils as there is a risk of Botulism – a rare but serious form of food poisoning . If the herbs look mouldy in the oil , throw it away and start again . Herbal Vinegars Made in much the same way as the oils . It is best to first slightly crush the herbs before placing in the clean jar Never use a jar with a metal lid , as the vinegar will corrode the lid and this will taint the contents After two weeks , strain the herbs and place the vinegar in clean bottles , with a sprig of herb for identification	Instruction
1474	at health Pet owners who are health conscious may be wondering if a cat health remedy is necessary for their pet . In this article , you will learn why a daily remedy is important for good health and what to look for in a quality supplement . Prevention becomes even more important when you realize how the quality of our food , water and environment have changed over the past fifty years . For instance , the environment is more polluted than at any other time in history . Food is less nutrient-rich because it is grown in over-farmed , mineral deficient soil . It is also sprayed with pesticides . Water is treated by the city water treatment plant and is full of chemicals . These toxins adversely affect humans and they have the same effect on our beloved pets who did nothing to contribute to the mess that we are in . So let 's talk about what to look for in a good supplement because there are many on the market and some are better than others . The formulation that I recommend has antioxidants and uses herbs that cats would normally chew on in the wild if allowed freedom to roam . These herbs include Mistletoe , Echinacea , Astralagus , Milk Thistle and of course , Cat's Claw . Together , this formulation can increase lung and heart health , build immunity , provide much-need nutrients and even fight cancer and other immune-suppressing disorders . If you choose to give your pet a daily cat health remedy , you might as well give your pet the best . In addition to giving your pet a supplement , other important ways of promoting cat health are to get a tap filter to remove all those chemicals from city water and feed your pet healthy food . Make sure to read the ingredients label to ensure that it 's not the equivalent of junk food as some commercial brands are . Watch out for dyes , chemicals and cheap grains and fillers .	Instruction
1363	"Pavel Durov , the developer of Russia's biggest social network VKontakte , is much more compared to a little acquainted with government security . On a preparation require a surprise appearance at TechCrunch Disrupt in Berlin today , he funned with co-editor Alexia Tsotsis to point out "" & ldquo ; Hello & rdquo ; to federal government representatives that he believed were listening closely on the telephone call . His house and VKontakte ' & rsquo ; s offices were additionally both searched amid an investigation in to a website traffic accident that Durov has actually rejected participation in . The Russian federal government just recently ended the investigation , without discovering any sort of misbehavior . "" & ldquo ; We don t have anything to show the government , because the encryption basics are produced on the tool and traded purely between the devices , with the aiding of challenging formulas , "" & rdquo ; he pointed out . & ldquo ; The web server doesn t really understand what delights in is being produced . "" & rdquo ; Telegram is based on a custom-made information process called MTProto built by Pavel's brother Nikolai Durov , a math wizzard . The app's secret chats , a different component from its regular conversations , make use of end-to-end security . They could not be forwarded and can be set to self-destruct after a certain amount of time . One vital difference in between Telegram's secret and ordinary conversations is that secret conversations are not stored in the application's cloud , meanings you could only access messages from their tool of origin . "" & ldquo ; The international threat of ' Big Sibling can actually be controlled simply by modern technology , "" & rdquo ; he pointed out . Durov was , of course , critical of recent reports that the U.S. ' s National Safety Company has gotten in to the call or internet communications of both U.S. citizens and overseas heads of state . "" & ldquo ; I believe the big difference between many nations and the UNITED STATE , is that governments are much more straightforward now about their intentions to gather info on private communications , "" & rdquo ; he pointed out . His new application belongs to a charitable , as opposed to a for-profit or venture-backed business . Durov claimed he picked this course due to the fact that he intends to make individuals ' rely on . & ldquo ; I wish some people will find this item beneficial and feel more secure , "" & rdquo ; he stated ."	News
297	One thing you are likely to come across during the promotion of your website is link exchange programs . Essentially this is the process of obtaining a free link on a particular site by agreeing to place a link to them on your site . Be careful however not to link to ' bad neighbourhoods ' , this is what many search engines refer to as sites that attempt to exploit or degrade the relevancy of their search results . Bad neighbourhoods tend to include sites involved in link pyramids , link farms and any other activity that requires you to download pages of links to your website . Linking to bad neighbourhoods may well harm your pagerank and will not improve your position one iota . Check the pagerank of the site the listing is offered on and decide whether a link exchange would be a fair deal for both parties . If your pagerank is 0 then you wo n ' t have much to bargain with , alternatively if your pagerank is 6 then it will not be advantageous to pursue a link on a site with a pagerank of 0 .	Instruction
1197	Help fuel progress against the disease We are committed to serving the needs of people with adult congenital heart disease . The simplest way to help us achieve our mission and support our program is to make a donation . We use your contributions to : Fund programs and services year around Provide resources for our community Develop the highest standards for care of people with adult congenital heart disease , including developing an accreditation program for the clinics Promote research Host our National Conference , a unique resource for patients , family members and professionals . The Conference provides information , the opportunity to meet and interact with top experts , and a remarkable place to connect with members of the community You can make your donation to our general fund , designate a specific fund or choose a specific use for your gift . Your gift can be a one-time donation , or you can set it up on a recurring basis – monthly or annually , for example .	Promotion
942	Order Christmas Cards Online Welcome to the Hedgerow Publishing online Christmas Card ordering service where it 's quick and easy to order your cards online . Simply make your choice from the folowing boxes in order . The box you need to fill in next is highlighted to make it easy to see what stage you are at in your selection . When you have selected the elements of your card simply click ' Add To Basket ' to add your card to your shopping basket . If you make a mistake do n't worry , simply click your preferred choice , if you have already added your card to your basket you can delete it and add it again with your prefered selections . You can change any aspect of your card at any stage until you click ' Add To Basket ' . Once you have added all the cards you wish simply select ' Checkout ' then enter your details and click ' Confirm Order ' . If you select a card with a POA price we will contact you to finalise the details . If you have any further questions or want to talk about your order please email websales@hedgerow.co.uk and we will do our best to help .	Instruction
1228	Tell Congress To Save Wild Tigers From Extinction Wild tigers could soon be slaughtered to extinction by poachers – fewer than 4,000 are left in the wild . Scientific evidence shows that extinctions are occurring from 100 to 1,000 times more quickly than the natural rate . Unless we alter course , 60 % of the earth's species may disappear by the end of this century . Congress has the power to help save wild tigers by reauthorizing the Multinational Species Conservation Fund ( MSCF ) , but they are n't likely to bring it to vote unless they hear from constituents like you . It 's our global responsibility to stop the extinction of tigers at the hands of poachers . If we can not save this awe-inspiring icon of nature , what hope do we have of protecting any other species from extinction ? There 's no time to lose – if the MSCF is n't reauthorized , crucial programs that protect tigers will likely disappear . Send your letter to Congress today .	Promotion
1170	Your blood saves lives . Your blood donation is an amazing gift to people who need it in an emergency or for on-going medical treatment . We need over 6,000 people to give blood every day to meet the needs of hospitals and patients . Find out how donated blood is used .	Promotion
213	"nm New York 13-31 March 2000 12-30 June 2000 Report of the Preparatory Commission for the International Criminal Court Addendum * Incorporating document PCNICC / 2000 / INF / 3 / Add . 1 and corrections to the Arabic , French and Spanish versions submitted by Governments pursuant to paragraph 16 of the Introduction . Part I Finalized draft text of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence * Explanatory note The Rules of Procedure and Evidence are an instrument for the application of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court , to which they are subordinate in all cases . In elaborating the Rules of Procedure and Evidence , care has been taken to avoid rephrasing and , to the extent possible , repeating the provisions of the Statute . Direct references to the Statute have been included in the Rules , where appropriate , in order to emphasize the relationship between the Rules and the Rome Statute , as provided for in article 51 , in particular , paragraphs 4 and 5 . In all cases , the Rules of Procedure and Evidence should be read in conjunction with and subject to the provisions of the Statute . The Rules of Procedure and Evidence of the International Criminal Court do not affect the procedural rules for any national court or legal system for the purpose of national proceedings . In connection with rule 41 , the Preparatory Commission considered whether the application of the rule would be facilitated by including a provision in the Regulations of the Court that at least one of the judges of the Chamber in which the case is heard knows the official language used as a working language in a given case . The Assembly of States Parties is invited to give further consideration to this issue . Rules of Procedure and Evidence Contents Chapter 1 General provisions Rule 1 Use of terms In the present document : - "" article "" refers to articles of the Rome Statute ; - "" Chamber "" refers to a Chamber of the Court ; - "" Part "" refers to the Parts of the Rome Statute ; - "" Presiding Judge "" refers to the Presiding Judge of a Chamber ; - "" the President "" refers to the President of the Court ; - "" the Regulations "" refers to the Regulations of the Court ; - "" the Rules "" refers to the Rules of Procedure and Evidence . Rule 2 Authentic texts The Rules have been adopted in the official languages of the Court established by article 50 , paragraph 1 . All texts are equally authentic . Rule 3 Amendments Amendments to the rules that are proposed in accordance with article 51 , paragraph 2 , shall be forwarded to the President of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties . The President of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties shall ensure that all proposed amendments are translated into the official languages of the Court and are transmitted to the States Parties . The procedure described in sub-rules 1 and 2 shall also apply to the provisional rules referred to in article 51 , paragraph 3 . Chapter 2 Composition and administration of the Court Section I General provisions relating to the composition and administration of the Court Rule 4 Plenary sessions The judges shall meet in plenary session not later than two months after their election . At that first session , after having made their solemn undertaking , in conformity with rule 5 , the judges shall : ( a ) Elect the President and Vice-Presidents ; ( b ) Assign judges to divisions . The judges shall meet subsequently in plenary session at least once a year to exercise their functions under the Statute , the Rules and the Regulations and , if necessary , in special plenary sessions convened by the President on his or her own motion or at the request of one half of the judges . The quorum for each plenary session shall be two-thirds of the judges . Unless otherwise provided in the Statute or the Rules , the decisions of the plenary sessions shall be taken by the majority of the judges present . In the event of an equality of votes , the President , or the judge acting in the place of the President , shall have a casting vote . The Regulations shall be adopted as soon as possible in plenary sessions . Rule 5 Solemn undertaking under article 45 As provided in article 45 , before exercising their functions under the Statute , the following solemn undertakings shall be made : ( a ) In the case of a judge : "" I solemnly undertake that I will perform my duties and exercise my powers as a judge of the International Criminal Court honourably , faithfully , impartially and conscientiously , and that I will respect the confidentiality of investigations and prosecutions and the secrecy of deliberations . "" ; ( b ) In the case of the Prosecutor , a Deputy Prosecutor , the Registrar and the Deputy Registrar of the Court : "" I solemnly undertake that I will perform my duties and exercise my powers as ( title ) of the International Criminal Court honourably , faithfully , impartially and conscientiously , and that I will respect the confidentiality of investigations and prosecutions . "" The undertaking , signed by the person making it and witnessed by the President or a Vice-President of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties , shall be filed with the Registry and kept in the records of the Court . Rule 6 Solemn undertaking by the staff of the Office of the Prosecutor , the Registry , interpreters and translators Upon commencing employment , every staff member of the Office of the Prosecutor and the Registry shall make the following undertaking : "" I solemnly undertake that I will perform my duties and exercise my powers as ( title ) of the International Criminal Court honourably , faithfully , impartially and conscientiously , and that I will respect the confidentiality of investigations and prosecutions . "" ; The undertaking , signed by the person making it and witnessed , as appropriate , by the Prosecutor , the Deputy Prosecutor , the Registrar or the Deputy Registrar , shall be filed with the Registry and kept in the records of the Court . Before performing any duties , an interpreter or a translator shall make the following undertaking : "" I solemnly declare that I will perform my duties faithfully , impartially and with full respect for the duty of confidentiality . "" ; The undertaking , signed by the person making it and witnessed by the President of the Court or his or her representative , shall be filed with the Registry and kept in the records of the Court . Rule 7 Single judge under article 39 , paragraph 2 ( b ) ( iii ) Whenever the Pre-Trial Chamber designates a judge as a single judge in accordance with article 39 , paragraph 2 ( b ) ( iii ) , it shall do so on the basis of objective pre-established criteria . The designated judge shall make the appropriate decisions on those questions on which decision by the full Chamber is not expressly provided for in the Statute or the Rules . The Pre-Trial Chamber , on its own motion or , if appropriate , at the request of a party , may decide that the functions of the single judge be exercised by the full Chamber . Rule 8 Code of Professional Conduct The Presidency , on the basis of a proposal made by the Registrar , shall draw up a draft Code of Professional Conduct for counsel , after having consulted the Prosecutor . In the preparation of the proposal , the Registrar shall conduct the consultations in accordance with rule 20 , sub-rule 3 . The draft Code shall then be transmitted to the Assembly of States Parties , for the purpose of adoption , according to article 112 , paragraph 7 . The Code shall contain procedures for its amendment . Section II The Office of the Prosecutor Rule 9 Operation of the Office of the Prosecutor In discharging his or her responsibility for the management and administration of the Office of the Prosecutor , the Prosecutor shall put in place regulations to govern the operation of the Office . In preparing or amending these regulations , the Prosecutor shall consult with the Registrar on any matters that may affect the operation of the Registry . Rule 10 Retention of information and evidence The Prosecutor shall be responsible for the retention , storage and security of information and physical evidence obtained in the course of the investigations by his or her Office . Rule 11 Delegation of the Prosecutor's functions Except for the inherent powers of the Prosecutor set forth in the Statute , inter alia , those described in articles 15 and 53 , the Prosecutor or a Deputy Prosecutor may authorize staff members of the Office of the Prosecutor , other than those referred to in article 44 , paragraph 4 , to represent him or her in the exercise of his or her functions . Section III The Registry Subsection 1 General provisions relating to the Registry Rule 12 Qualifications and election of the Registrar and the Deputy Registrar As soon as it is elected , the Presidency shall establish a list of candidates who satisfy the criteria laid down in article 43 , paragraph 3 , and shall transmit the list to the Assembly of States Parties with a request for any recommendations . Upon receipt of any recommendations from the Assembly of States Parties , the President shall , without delay , transmit the list together with the recommendations to the plenary session . As provided for in article 43 , paragraph 4 , the Court , meeting in plenary session , shall , as soon as possible , elect the Registrar by an absolute majority , taking into account any recommendations by the Assembly of States Parties . In the event that no candidate obtains an absolute majority on the first ballot , successive ballots shall be held until one candidate obtains an absolute majority . If the need for a Deputy Registrar arises , the Registrar may make a recommendation to the President to that effect . The President shall convene a plenary session to decide on the matter . If the Court , meeting in plenary session , decides by an absolute majority that a Deputy Registrar is to be elected , the Registrar shall submit a list of candidates to the Court . The Deputy Registrar shall be elected by the Court , meeting in plenary session , in the same manner as the Registrar . Rule 13 Functions of the Registrar Without prejudice to the authority of the Office of the Prosecutor under the Statute to receive , obtain and provide information and to establish channels of communication for this purpose , the Registrar shall serve as the channel of communication of the Court . The Registrar shall also be responsible for the internal security of the Court in consultation with the Presidency and the Prosecutor , as well as the host State . Rule 14 Operation of the Registry In discharging his or her responsibility for the organization and management of the Registry , the Registrar shall put in place regulations to govern the operation of the Registry . In preparing or amending these regulations , the Registrar shall consult with the Prosecutor on any matters which may affect the operation of the Office of the Prosecutor . The regulations shall be approved by the Presidency . The regulations shall provide for defence counsel to have access to appropriate and reasonable administrative assistance from the Registry . Rule 15 Records The Registrar shall keep a database containing all the particulars of each case brought before the Court , subject to any order of a judge or Chamber providing for the non-disclosure of any document or information , and to the protection of sensitive personal data . Information on the database shall be available to the public in the working languages of the Court . The Registrar shall also maintain the other records of the Court . Subsection 2 Victims and Witnesses Unit Rule 16 Responsibilities of the Registrar relating to victims and witnesses In relation to victims , the Registrar shall be responsible for the performance of the following functions in accordance with the Statute and these Rules : ( a ) Providing notice or notification to victims or their legal representatives ; ( b ) Assisting them in obtaining legal advice and organizing their legal representation , and providing their legal representatives with adequate support , assistance and information , including such facilities as may be necessary for the direct performance of their duty , for the purpose of protecting their rights during all stages of the proceedings in accordance with rules 89 to 91 ; ( c ) Assisting them in participating in the different phases of the proceedings in accordance with rules 89 to 91 ; ( d ) Taking gender-sensitive measures to facilitate the participation of victims of sexual violence at all stages of the proceedings . In relation to victims , witnesses and others who are at risk on account of testimony given by such witnesses , the Registrar shall be responsible for the performance of the following functions in accordance with the Statute and these Rules : ( a ) Informing them of their rights under the Statute and the Rules , and of the existence , functions and availability of the Victims and Witnesses Unit ; ( b ) Ensuring that they are aware , in a timely manner , of the relevant decisions of the Court that may have an impact on their interests , subject to provisions on confidentiality . For the fulfilment of his or her functions , the Registrar may keep a special register for victims who have expressed their intention to participate in relation to a specific case . Agreements on relocation and provision of support services on the territory of a State of traumatized or threatened victims , witnesses and others who are at risk on account of testimony given by such witnesses may be negotiated with the States by the Registrar on behalf of the Court . Such agreements may remain confidential . Rule 17 Functions of the Unit The Victims and Witnesses Unit shall exercise its functions in accordance with article 43 , paragraph 6 . The Victims and Witnesses Unit shall , inter alia , perform the following functions , in accordance with the Statute and the Rules , and in consultation with the Chamber , the Prosecutor and the defence , as appropriate : ( a ) With respect to all witnesses , victims who appear before the Court , and others who are at risk on account of testimony given by such witnesses , in accordance with their particular needs and circumstances : ( i ) Providing them with adequate protective and security measures and formulating long - and short-term plans for their protection ; ( ii ) Recommending to the organs of the Court the adoption of protection measures and also advising relevant States of such measures ; ( iii ) Assisting them in obtaining medical , psychological and other appropriate assistance ; ( iv ) Making available to the Court and the parties training in issues of trauma , sexual violence , security and confidentiality ; ( v ) Recommending , in consultation with the Office of the Prosecutor , the elaboration of a code of conduct , emphasizing the vital nature of security and confidentiality for investigators of the Court and of the defence and all intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations acting at the request of the Court , as appropriate ; ( vi ) Cooperating with States , where necessary , in providing any of the measures stipulated in this rule ; ( b ) With respect to witnesses : ( i ) Advising them where to obtain legal advice for the purpose of protecting their rights , in particular in relation to their testimony ; ( ii ) Assisting them when they are called to testify before the Court ; ( iii ) Taking gender-sensitive measures to facilitate the testimony of victims of sexual violence at all stages of the proceedings . In performing its functions , the Unit shall give due regard to the particular needs of children , elderly persons and persons with disabilities . In order to facilitate the participation and protection of children as witnesses , the Unit may assign , as appropriate , and with the agreement of the parents or the legal guardian , a child-support person to assist a child through all stages of the proceedings . Rule 18 Responsibilities of the Unit For the efficient and effective performance of its work , the Victims and Witnesses Unit shall : ( a ) Ensure that the staff in the Unit maintain confidentiality at all times ; ( b ) While recognizing the specific interests of the Office of the Prosecutor , the defence and the witnesses , respect the interests of the witness , including , where necessary , by maintaining an appropriate separation of the services provided to the prosecution and defence witnesses , and act impartially when cooperating with all parties and in accordance with the rulings and decisions of the Chambers ; ( c ) Have administrative and technical assistance available for witnesses , victims who appear before the Court , and others who are at risk on account of testimony given by such witnesses , during all stages of the proceedings and thereafter , as reasonably appropriate ; ( d ) Ensure training of its staff with respect to victims ' and witnesses' security , integrity and dignity , including matters related to gender and cultural sensitivity ; ( e ) Where appropriate , cooperate with intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations . Rule 19 Expertise in the Unit In addition to the staff mentioned in article 43 , paragraph 6 , and subject to article 44 , the Victims and Witnesses Unit may include , as appropriate , persons with expertise , inter alia , in the following areas : ( a ) Witness protection and security ; ( b ) Legal and administrative matters , including areas of humanitarian and criminal law ; ( c ) Logistics administration ; ( d ) Psychology in criminal proceedings ; ( e ) Gender and cultural diversity ; ( f ) Children , in particular traumatized children ; ( g ) Elderly persons , in particular in connection with armed conflict and exile trauma ; ( h ) Persons with disabilities ; ( i ) Social work and counselling ; ( j ) Health care ; ( k ) Interpretation and translation . Subsection 3 Counsel for the defence Rule 20 Responsibilities of the Registrar relating to the rights of the defence In accordance with article 43 , paragraph 1 , the Registrar shall organize the staff of the Registry in a manner that promotes the rights of the defence , consistent with the principle of fair trial as defined in the Statute . For that purpose , the Registrar shall , inter alia : ( a ) Facilitate the protection of confidentiality , as defined in article 67 , paragraph 1 ( b ) ; ( b ) Provide support , assistance , and information to all defence counsel appearing before the Court and , as appropriate , support for professional investigators necessary for the efficient and effective conduct of the defence ; ( c ) Assist arrested persons , persons to whom article 55 , paragraph 2 , applies and the accused in obtaining legal advice and the assistance of legal counsel ; ( d ) Advise the Prosecutor and the Chambers , as necessary , on relevant defence-related issues ; ( e ) Provide the defence with such facilities as may be necessary for the direct performance of the duty of the defence ; ( f ) Facilitate the dissemination of information and case law of the Court to defence counsel and , as appropriate , cooperate with national defence and bar associations or any independent representative body of counsel and legal associations referred to in sub-rule 3 to promote the specialization and training of lawyers in the law of the Statute and the Rules . The Registrar shall carry out the functions stipulated in sub-rule 1 , including the financial administration of the Registry , in such a manner as to ensure the professional independence of defence counsel . For purposes such as the management of legal assistance in accordance with rule 21 and the development of a Code of Professional Conduct in accordance with rule 8 , the Registrar shall consult , as appropriate , with any independent representative body of counsel or legal associations , including any such body the establishment of which may be facilitated by the Assembly of States Parties . Rule 21 Assignment of legal assistance Subject to article 55 , paragraph 2 ( c ) , and article 67 , paragraph 1 ( d ) , criteria and procedures for assignment of legal assistance shall be established in the Regulations , based on a proposal by the Registrar , following consultations with any independent representative body of counsel or legal associations , as referred to in rule 20 , sub-rule 3 . The Registrar shall create and maintain a list of counsel who meet the criteria set forth in rule 22 and the Regulations . The person shall freely choose his or her counsel from this list or other counsel who meets the required criteria and is willing to be included in the list . A person may seek from the Presidency a review of a decision to refuse a request for assignment of counsel . The decision of the Presidency shall be final . If a request is refused , a further request may be made by a person to the Registrar , upon showing a change in circumstances . A person choosing to represent himself or herself shall so notify the Registrar in writing at the first opportunity . Where a person claims to have insufficient means to pay for legal assistance and this is subsequently found not to be so , the Chamber dealing with the case at that time may make an order of contribution to recover the cost of providing counsel . Rule 22 Appointment and qualifications of Counsel for the defence A counsel for the defence shall have established competence in international or criminal law and procedure , as well as the necessary relevant experience , whether as judge , prosecutor , advocate or in other similar capacity , in criminal proceedings . A counsel for the defence shall have an excellent knowledge of and be fluent in at least one of the working languages of the Court . Counsel for the defence may be assisted by other persons , including professors of law , with relevant expertise . Counsel for the defence engaged by a person exercising his or her right under the Statute to retain legal counsel of his or her choosing shall file a power of attorney with the Registrar at the earliest opportunity . In the performance of their duties , Counsel for the defence shall be subject to the Statute , the Rules , the Regulations , the Code of Professional Conduct for Counsel adopted in accordance with rule 8 and any other document adopted by the Court that may be relevant to the performance of their duties . Section IV Situations that may affect the functioning of the Court Subsection 1 Removal from office and disciplinary measures Rule 23 General principle A judge , the Prosecutor , a Deputy Prosecutor , the Registrar and a Deputy Registrar shall be removed from office or shall be subject to disciplinary measures in such cases and with such guarantees as are established in the Statute and the Rules . Rule 24 Definition of serious misconduct and serious breach of duty For the purposes of article 46 , paragraph 1 ( a ) , "" serious misconduct "" shall be constituted by conduct that : ( a ) If it occurs in the course of official duties , is incompatible with official functions , and causes or is likely to cause serious harm to the proper administration of justice before the Court or the proper internal functioning of the Court , such as : ( i ) Disclosing facts or information that he or she has acquired in the course of his or her duties or on a matter which is sub judice , where such disclosure is seriously prejudicial to the judicial proceedings or to any person ; ( ii ) Concealing information or circumstances of a nature sufficiently serious to have precluded him or her from holding office ; ( iii ) Abuse of judicial office in order to obtain unwarranted favourable treatment from any authorities , officials or professionals ; or ( b ) If it occurs outside the course of official duties , is of a grave nature that causes or is likely to cause serious harm to the standing of the Court . For the purposes of article 46 , paragraph 1 ( a ) , a "" serious breach of duty "" occurs where a person has been grossly negligent in the performance of his or her duties or has knowingly acted in contravention of those duties . This may include , inter alia , situations where the person : ( a ) Fails to comply with the duty to request to be excused , knowing that there are grounds for doing so ; ( b ) Repeatedly causes unwarranted delay in the initiation , prosecution or trial of cases , or in the exercise of judicial powers . Rule 25 Definition of misconduct of a less serious nature For the purposes of article 47 , "" misconduct of a less serious nature "" shall be constituted by conduct that : ( a ) If it occurs in the course of official duties , causes or is likely to cause harm to the proper administration of justice before the Court or the proper internal functioning of the Court , such as : Interfering in the exercise of the functions of a person referred to in article 47 ; ( ii ) Repeatedly failing to comply with or ignoring requests made by the Presiding Judge or by the Presidency in the exercise of their lawful authority ; ( iii ) Failing to enforce the disciplinary measures to which the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar and other officers of the Court are subject when a judge knows or should know of a serious breach of duty on their part ; or ( b ) If it occurs outside the course of official duties , causes or is likely to cause harm to the standing of the Court . Nothing in this rule precludes the possibility of the conduct set out in sub-rule 1 ( a ) constituting "" serious misconduct "" or "" serious breach of duty "" for the purposes of article 46 , paragraph 1 ( a ) . Rule 26 Receipt of complaints For the purposes of article 46 , paragraph 1 , and article 47 , any complaint concerning any conduct defined under rules 24 and 25 shall include the grounds on which it is based , the identity of the complainant and , if available , any relevant evidence . The complaint shall remain confidential . All complaints shall be transmitted to the Presidency , which may also initiate proceedings on its own motion , and which shall , pursuant to the Regulations , set aside anonymous or manifestly unfounded complaints and transmit the other complaints to the competent organ . The Presidency shall be assisted in this task by one or more judges , appointed on the basis of automatic rotation , in accordance with the Regulations . Rule 27 Common provisions on the rights of the defence In any case in which removal from office under article 46 or disciplinary measures under article 47 is under consideration , the person concerned shall be so informed in a written statement . The person concerned shall be afforded full opportunity to present and receive evidence , to make written submissions and to supply answers to any questions put to him or her . The person may be represented by counsel during the process established under this rule . Rule 28 Suspension from duty Where an allegation against a person who is the subject of a complaint is of a sufficiently serious nature , the person may be suspended from duty pending the final decision of the competent organ . Rule 29 Procedure in the event of a request for removal from office In the case of a judge , the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar , the question of removal from office shall be put to a vote at a plenary session . The Presidency shall advise the President of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties in writing of any recommendation adopted in the case of a judge , and any decision adopted in the case of the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar . The Prosecutor shall advise the President of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties in writing of any recommendation he or she makes in the case of a Deputy Prosecutor . Where the conduct is found not to amount to serious misconduct or a serious breach of duty , it may be decided in accordance with article 47 that the person concerned has engaged in misconduct of a less serious nature and a disciplinary measure imposed . Rule 30 Procedure in the event of a request for disciplinary measures In the case of a judge , the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar , any decision to impose a disciplinary measure shall be taken by the Presidency . In the case of the Prosecutor , any decision to impose a disciplinary measure shall be taken by an absolute majority of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties . In the case of a Deputy Prosecutor : ( a ) Any decision to give a reprimand shall be taken by the Prosecutor ; ( b ) Any decision to impose a pecuniary sanction shall be taken by an absolute majority of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties upon the recommendation of the Prosecutor . Reprimands shall be recorded in writing and shall be transmitted to the President of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties . Rule 31 Removal from office Once removal from office has been pronounced , it shall take effect immediately . The person concerned shall cease to form part of the Court , including for unfinished cases in which he or she was taking part . Rule 32 Disciplinary measures The disciplinary measures that may be imposed are : ( a ) A reprimand ; or ( b ) A pecuniary sanction that may not exceed six months of the salary paid by the Court to the person concerned . Subsection 2 Excusing , disqualification , death and resignation Rule 33 Excusing of a judge , the Prosecutor or a Deputy Prosecutor A judge , the Prosecutor or a Deputy Prosecutor seeking to be excused from his or her functions shall make a request in writing to the Presidency , setting out the grounds upon which he or she should be excused . The Presidency shall treat the request as confidential and shall not make public the reasons for its decision without the consent of the person concerned . Rule 34 Disqualification of a judge , the Prosecutor or a Deputy Prosecutor In addition to the grounds set out in article 41 , paragraph 2 , and article 42 , paragraph 7 , the grounds for disqualification of a judge , the Prosecutor or a Deputy Prosecutor shall include , inter alia , the following : ( a ) Personal interest in the case , including a spousal , parental or other close family , personal or professional relationship , or a subordinate relationship , with any of the parties ; ( b ) Involvement , in his or her private capacity , in any legal proceedings initiated prior to his or her involvement in the case , or initiated by him or her subsequently , in which the person being investigated or prosecuted was or is an opposing party ; ( c ) Performance of functions , prior to taking office , during which he or she could be expected to have formed an opinion on the case in question , on the parties or on their legal representatives that , objectively , could adversely affect the required impartiality of the person concerned ; ( d ) Expression of opinions , through the communications media , in writing or in public actions , that , objectively , could adversely affect the required impartiality of the person concerned . Subject to the provisions set out in article 41 , paragraph 2 , and article 42 , paragraph 8 , a request for disqualification shall be made in writing as soon as there is knowledge of the grounds on which it is based . The request shall state the grounds and attach any relevant evidence , and shall be transmitted to the person concerned , who shall be entitled to present written submissions . Any question relating to the disqualification of the Prosecutor or a Deputy Prosecutor shall be decided by a majority of the judges of the Appeals Chamber . Rule 35 Duty of a judge , the Prosecutor or a Deputy Prosecutor to request to be excused Where a judge , the Prosecutor or a Deputy Prosecutor has reason to believe that a ground for disqualification exists in relation to him or her , he or she shall make a request to be excused and shall not wait for a request for disqualification to be made in accordance with article 41 , paragraph 2 , or article 42 , paragraph 7 , and rule 34 . The request shall be made and the Presidency shall deal with it in accordance with rule 33 . Rule 36 Death of a judge , the Prosecutor , a Deputy Prosecutor , the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar The Presidency shall inform , in writing , the President of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties of the death of a judge , the Prosecutor , a Deputy Prosecutor , the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar . Rule 37 Resignation of a judge , the Prosecutor , a Deputy Prosecutor , the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar A judge , the Prosecutor , a Deputy Prosecutor , the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar shall communicate to the Presidency , in writing , his or her decision to resign . The Presidency shall inform , in writing , the President of the Bureau of the Assembly of States Parties . A judge , the Prosecutor , a Deputy Prosecutor , the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar shall endeavour to give notice of the date on which his or her resignation will take effect at least six months in advance . Before the resignation of a judge takes effect , he or she shall make every effort to discharge his or her outstanding responsibilities . Subsection 3 Replacements and alternate judges Rule 38 Replacements A judge may be replaced for objective and justified reasons , inter alia : ( a ) Resignation ; ( b ) Accepted excuse ; ( c ) Disqualification ; ( d ) Removal from office ; ( e ) Death . Replacement shall take place in accordance with the pre-established procedure in the Statute , the Rules and the Regulations . Rule 39 Alternate judges Where an alternate judge has been assigned by the Presidency to a Trial Chamber pursuant to article 74 , paragraph 1 , he or she shall sit through all proceedings and deliberations of the case , but may not take any part therein and shall not exercise any of the functions of the members of the Trial Chamber hearing the case , unless and until he or she is required to replace a member of the Trial Chamber if that member is unable to continue attending . Alternate judges shall be designated in accordance with a procedure pre-established by the Court . Section V Publication , languages and translation Rule 40 Publication of decisions in official languages of the Court For the purposes of article 50 , paragraph 1 , the following decisions shall be considered as resolving fundamental issues : ( a ) All decisions of the Appeals Division ; ( b ) All decisions of the Court on its jurisdiction or on the admissibility of a case pursuant to articles 17 , 18 , 19 and 20 ; ( c ) All decisions of a Trial Chamber on guilt or innocence , sentencing and reparations to victims pursuant to articles 74 , 75 and 76 ; ( d ) All decisions of a Pre-Trial Chamber pursuant to article 57 , paragraph 3 ( d ) . Decisions on confirmation of charges under article 61 , paragraph 7 , and on offences against the administration of justice under article 70 , paragraph 3 , shall be published in all the official languages of the Court when the Presidency determines that they resolve fundamental issues . The Presidency may decide to publish other decisions in all the official languages when such decisions concern major issues relating to the interpretation or the implementation of the Statute or concern a major issue of general interest . Rule 41 Working languages of the Court For the purposes of article 50 , paragraph 2 , the Presidency shall authorize the use of an official language of the Court as a working language when : ( a ) That language is understood and spoken by the majority of those involved in a case before the Court and any of the participants in the proceedings so requests ; or ( b ) The Prosecutor and the defence so request . The Presidency may authorize the use of an official language of the Court as a working language if it considers that it would facilitate the efficiency of the proceedings . Rule 42 Translation and interpretation services The Court shall arrange for the translation and interpretation services necessary to ensure the implementation of its obligations under the Statute and the Rules . Rule 43 Procedure applicable to the publication of documents of the Court The Court shall ensure that all documents subject to publication in accordance with the Statute and the Rules respect the duty to protect the confidentiality of the proceedings and the security of victims and witnesses . Chapter 3 Jurisdiction and admissibility Section I Declarations and referrals relating to articles 11 , 12 , 13 and 14 Rule 44 Declaration provided for in article 12 , paragraph 3 The Registrar , at the request of the Prosecutor , may inquire of a State that is not a Party to the Statute or that has become a Party to the Statute after its entry into force , on a confidential basis , whether it intends to make the declaration provided for in article 12 , paragraph 3 . When a State lodges , or declares to the Registrar its intent to lodge , a declaration with the Registrar pursuant to article 12 , paragraph 3 , or when the Registrar acts pursuant to sub-rule 1 , the Registrar shall inform the State concerned that the declaration under article 12 , paragraph 3 , has as a consequence the acceptance of jurisdiction with respect to the crimes referred to in article 5 of relevance to the situation and the provisions of Part 9 , and any rules thereunder concerning States Parties , shall apply . Rule 45 Referral of a situation to the Prosecutor A referral of a situation to the Prosecutor shall be in writing . Section II Initiation of investigations under article 15 Rule 46 Information provided to the Prosecutor under article 15 , paragraphs 1 and 2 Where information is submitted under article 15 , paragraph 1 , or where oral or written testimony is received pursuant to article 15 , paragraph 2 , at the seat of the Court , the Prosecutor shall protect the confidentiality of such information and testimony or take any other necessary measures , pursuant to his or her duties under the Statute . Rule 47 Testimony under article 15 , paragraph 2 The provisions of rules 111 and 112 shall apply , mutatis mutandis , to testimony received by the Prosecutor pursuant to article 15 , paragraph 2 . When the Prosecutor considers that there is a serious risk that it might not be possible for the testimony to be taken subsequently , he or she may request the Pre-Trial Chamber to take such measures as may be necessary to ensure the efficiency and integrity of the proceedings and , in particular , to appoint a counsel or a judge from the Pre-Trial Chamber to be present during the taking of the testimony in order to protect the rights of the defence . If the testimony is subsequently presented in the proceedings , its admissibility shall be governed by article 69 , paragraph 4 , and given such weight as determined by the relevant Chamber . Rule 48 Determination of reasonable basis to proceed with an investigation under article 15 , paragraph 3 In determining whether there is a reasonable basis to proceed with an investigation under article 15 , paragraph 3 , the Prosecutor shall consider the factors set out in article 53 , paragraph 1 ( a ) to ( c ) . Rule 49 Decision and notice under article 15 , paragraph 6 Where a decision under article 15 , paragraph 6 , is taken , the Prosecutor shall promptly ensure that notice is provided , including reasons for his or her decision , in a manner that prevents any danger to the safety , well-being and privacy of those who provided information to him or her under article 15 , paragraphs 1 and 2 , or the integrity of investigations or proceedings . The notice shall also advise of the possibility of submitting further information regarding the same situation in the light of new facts and evidence . Rule 50 Procedure for authorization by the Pre-Trial Chamber of the commencement of the investigation When the Prosecutor intends to seek authorization from the Pre-Trial Chamber to initiate an investigation pursuant to article 15 , paragraph 3 , the Prosecutor shall inform victims , known to him or her or to the Victims and Witnesses Unit , or their legal representatives , unless the Prosecutor decides that doing so would pose a danger to the integrity of the investigation or the life or well-being of victims and witnesses . The Prosecutor may also give notice by general means in order to reach groups of victims if he or she determines in the particular circumstances of the case that such notice could not pose a danger to the integrity and effective conduct of the investigation or to the security and well-being of victims and witnesses . In performing these functions , the Prosecutor may seek the assistance of the Victims and Witnesses Unit as appropriate . A request for authorization by the Prosecutor shall be in writing . Following information given in accordance with sub-rule 1 , victims may make representations in writing to the Pre-Trial Chamber within such time limit as set forth in the Regulations . The Pre-Trial Chamber , in deciding on the procedure to be followed , may request additional information from the Prosecutor and from any of the victims who have made representations , and , if it considers it appropriate , may hold a hearing . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall issue its decision , including its reasons , as to whether to authorize the commencement of the investigation in accordance with article 15 , paragraph 4 , with respect to all or any part of the request by the Prosecutor . The Chamber shall give notice of the decision to victims who have made representations . The above procedure shall also apply to a new request to the Pre-Trial Chamber pursuant to article 15 , paragraph 5 . Section III Challenges and preliminary rulings under articles 17 , 18 and 19 Rule 51 Information provided under article 17 In considering the matters referred to in article 17 , paragraph 2 , and in the context of the circumstances of the case , the Court may consider , inter alia , information that the State referred to in article 17 , paragraph 1 , may choose to bring to the attention of the Court showing that its courts meet internationally recognized norms and standards for the independent and impartial prosecution of similar conduct , or that the State has confirmed in writing to the Prosecutor that the case is being investigated or prosecuted . Rule 52 Notification provided for in article 18 , paragraph 1 Subject to the limitations provided for in article 18 , paragraph 1 , the notification shall contain information about the acts that may constitute crimes referred to in article 5 , relevant for the purposes of article 18 , paragraph 2 . A State may request additional information from the Prosecutor to assist it in the application of article 18 , paragraph 2 . Such a request shall not affect the one-month time limit provided for in article 18 , paragraph 2 , and shall be responded to by the Prosecutor on an expedited basis . Rule 53 Deferral provided for in article 18 , paragraph 2 When a State requests a deferral pursuant to article 18 , paragraph 2 , that State shall make this request in writing and provide information concerning its investigation , taking into account article 18 , paragraph 2 . The Prosecutor may request additional information from that State . Rule 54 Application by the Prosecutor under article 18 , paragraph 2 An application submitted by the Prosecutor to the Pre-Trial Chamber in accordance with article 18 , paragraph 2 , shall be in writing and shall contain the basis for the application . The information provided by the State under rule 53 shall be communicated by the Prosecutor to the Pre-Trial Chamber . The Prosecutor shall inform that State in writing when he or she makes an application to the Pre-Trial Chamber under article 18 , paragraph 2 , and shall include in the notice a summary of the basis of the application . Rule 55 Proceedings concerning article 18 , paragraph 2 The Pre-Trial Chamber shall decide on the procedure to be followed and may take appropriate measures for the proper conduct of the proceedings . It may hold a hearing . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall examine the Prosecutor's application and any observations submitted by a State that requested a deferral in accordance with article 18 , paragraph 2 , and shall consider the factors in article 17 in deciding whether to authorize an investigation . The decision and the basis for the decision of the Pre-Trial Chamber shall be communicated as soon as possible to the Prosecutor and to the State that requested a deferral of an investigation . Rule 56 Application by the Prosecutor following review under article 18 , paragraph 3 Following a review by the Prosecutor as set forth in article 18 , paragraph 3 , the Prosecutor may apply to the Pre-Trial Chamber for authorization in accordance with article 18 , paragraph 2 . The application to the Pre-Trial Chamber shall be in writing and shall contain the basis for the application . Any further information provided by the State under article 18 , paragraph 5 , shall be communicated by the Prosecutor to the Pre-Trial Chamber . The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with rules 54 , sub-rule 2 , and 55 . Rule 57 Provisional measures under article 18 , paragraph 6 An application to the Pre-Trial Chamber by the Prosecutor in the circumstances provided for in article 18 , paragraph 6 , shall be considered ex parte and in camera . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall rule on the application on an expedited basis . Rule 58 Proceedings under article 19 A request or application made under article 19 shall be in writing and contain the basis for it . When a Chamber receives a request or application raising a challenge or question concerning its jurisdiction or the admissibility of a case in accordance with article 19 , paragraph 2 or 3 , or is acting on its own motion as provided for in article 19 , paragraph 1 , it shall decide on the procedure to be followed and may take appropriate measures for the proper conduct of the proceedings . It may hold a hearing . It may join the challenge or question to a confirmation or a trial proceeding as long as this does not cause undue delay , and in this circumstance shall hear and decide on the challenge or question first . The Court shall transmit a request or application received under sub-rule 2 to the Prosecutor and to the person referred to in article 19 , paragraph 2 , who has been surrendered to the Court or who has appeared voluntarily or pursuant to a summons , and shall allow them to submit written observations to the request or application within a period of time determined by the Chamber . The Court shall rule on any challenge or question of jurisdiction first and then on any challenge or question of admissibility . Rule 59 Participation in proceedings under article 19 , paragraph 3 For the purpose of article 19 , paragraph 3 , the Registrar shall inform the following of any question or challenge of jurisdiction or admissibility which has arisen pursuant to article 19 , paragraphs 1 , 2 and 3 : ( a ) Those who have referred a situation pursuant to article 13 ; ( b ) The victims who have already communicated with the Court in relation to that case or their legal representatives . The Registrar shall provide those referred to in sub-rule 1 , in a manner consistent with the duty of the Court regarding the confidentiality of information , the protection of any person and the preservation of evidence , with a summary of the grounds on which the jurisdiction of the Court or the admissibility of the case has been challenged . Those receiving the information , as provided for in sub-rule 1 , may make representation in writing to the competent Chamber within such time limit as it considers appropriate . Rule 60 Competent organ to receive challenges If a challenge to the jurisdiction of the Court or to the admissibility of a case is made after a confirmation of the charges but before the constitution or designation of the Trial Chamber , it shall be addressed to the Presidency , which shall refer it to the Trial Chamber as soon as the latter is constituted or designated in accordance with rule 130 . Rule 61 Provisional measures under article 19 , paragraph 8 When the Prosecutor makes application to the competent Chamber in the circumstances provided for in article 19 , paragraph 8 , rule 57 shall apply . Rule 62 Proceedings under article 19 , paragraph 10 If the Prosecutor makes a request under article 19 , paragraph 10 , he or she shall make the request to the Chamber that made the latest ruling on admissibility . The provisions of rules 58 , 59 and 61 shall be applicable . The State or States whose challenge to admissibility under article 19 , paragraph 2 , provoked the decision of inadmissibility provided for in article 19 , paragraph 10 , shall be notified of the request of the Prosecutor and shall be given a time limit within which to make representations . Chapter 4 Provisions relating to various stages of the proceedings Section I Evidence Rule 63 General provisions relating to evidence The rules of evidence set forth in this chapter , together with article 69 , shall apply in proceedings before all Chambers . A Chamber shall have the authority , in accordance with the discretion described in article 64 , paragraph 9 , to assess freely all evidence submitted in order to determine its relevance or admissibility in accordance with article 69 . A Chamber shall rule on an application of a party or on its own motion , made under article 64 , subparagraph 9 ( a ) , concerning admissibility when it is based on the grounds set out in article 69 , paragraph 7 . Without prejudice to article 66 , paragraph 3 , a Chamber shall not impose a legal requirement that corroboration is required in order to prove any crime within the jurisdiction of the Court , in particular , crimes of sexual violence . The Chambers shall not apply national laws governing evidence , other than in accordance with article 21 . Rule 64 Procedure relating to the relevance or admissibility of evidence An issue relating to relevance or admissibility must be raised at the time when the evidence is submitted to a Chamber . Exceptionally , when those issues were not known at the time when the evidence was submitted , it may be raised immediately after the issue has become known . The Chamber may request that the issue be raised in writing . The written motion shall be communicated by the Court to all those who participate in the proceedings , unless otherwise decided by the Court . A Chamber shall give reasons for any rulings it makes on evidentiary matters . These reasons shall be placed in the record of the proceedings if they have not already been incorporated into the record during the course of the proceedings in accordance with article 64 , paragraph 10 , and rule 137 , sub-rule 1 . Evidence ruled irrelevant or inadmissible shall not be considered by the Chamber . Rule 65 Compellability of witnesses A witness who appears before the Court is compellable by the Court to provide testimony , unless otherwise provided for in the Statute and the Rules , in particular rules 73 , 74 and 75 . Rule 171 applies to a witness appearing before the Court who is compellable to provide testimony under sub-rule 1 . Rule 66 Solemn undertaking Except as described in sub-rule 2 , every witness shall , in accordance with article 69 , paragraph 1 , make the following solemn undertaking before testifying : "" I solemnly declare that I will speak the truth , the whole truth and nothing but the truth . "" A person under the age of 18 or a person whose judgement has been impaired and who , in the opinion of the Chamber , does not understand the nature of a solemn undertaking may be allowed to testify without this solemn undertaking if the Chamber considers that the person is able to describe matters of which he or she has knowledge and that the person understands the meaning of the duty to speak the truth . Before testifying , the witness shall be informed of the offence defined in article 70 , paragraph 1 ( a ) . Rule 67 Live testimony by means of audio or video-link technology In accordance with article 69 , paragraph 2 , a Chamber may allow a witness to give viva voce ( oral ) testimony before the Chamber by means of audio or video technology , provided that such technology permits the witness to be examined by the Prosecutor , the defence , and by the Chamber itself , at the time that the witness so testifies . The examination of a witness under this rule shall be conducted in accordance with the relevant rules of this chapter . The Chamber , with the assistance of the Registry , shall ensure that the venue chosen for the conduct of the audio or video-link testimony is conducive to the giving of truthful and open testimony and to the safety , physical and psychological well-being , dignity and privacy of the witness . Rule 68 Prior recorded testimony When the Pre-Trial Chamber has not taken measures under article 56 , the Trial Chamber may , in accordance with article 69 , paragraph 2 , allow the introduction of previously recorded audio or video testimony of a witness , or the transcript or other documented evidence of such testimony , provided that : ( a ) If the witness who gave the previously recorded testimony is not present before the Trial Chamber , both the Prosecutor and the defence had the opportunity to examine the witness during the recording ; or ( b ) If the witness who gave the previously recorded testimony is present before the Trial Chamber , he or she does not object to the submission of the previously recorded testimony and the Prosecutor , the defence and the Chamber have the opportunity to examine the witness during the proceedings . Rule 69 Agreements as to evidence The Prosecutor and the defence may agree that an alleged fact , which is contained in the charges , the contents of a document , the expected testimony of a witness or other evidence is not contested and , accordingly , a Chamber may consider such alleged fact as being proven , unless the Chamber is of the opinion that a more complete presentation of the alleged facts is required in the interests of justice , in particular the interests of the victims . Rule 70 Principles of evidence in cases of sexual violence In cases of sexual violence , the Court shall be guided by and , where appropriate , apply the following principles : ( a ) Consent can not be inferred by reason of any words or conduct of a victim where force , threat of force , coercion or taking advantage of a coercive environment undermined the victim's ability to give voluntary and genuine consent ; ( b ) Consent can not be inferred by reason of any words or conduct of a victim where the victim is incapable of giving genuine consent ; ( c ) Consent can not be inferred by reason of the silence of , or lack of resistance by , a victim to the alleged sexual violence ; ( d ) Credibility , character or predisposition to sexual availability of a victim or witness can not be inferred by reason of the sexual nature of the prior or subsequent conduct of a victim or witness . Rule 71 Evidence of other sexual conduct In the light of the definition and nature of the crimes within the jurisdiction of the Court , and subject to article 69 , paragraph 4 , a Chamber shall not admit evidence of the prior or subsequent sexual conduct of a victim or witness . Rule 72 In camera procedure to consider relevance or admissibility of evidence Where there is an intention to introduce or elicit , including by means of the questioning of a victim or witness , evidence that the victim consented to an alleged crime of sexual violence , or evidence of the words , conduct , silence or lack of resistance of a victim or witness as referred to in principles ( a ) through ( d ) of rule 70 , notification shall be provided to the Court which shall describe the substance of the evidence intended to be introduced or elicited and the relevance of the evidence to the issues in the case . In deciding whether the evidence referred to in sub-rule 1 is relevant or admissible , a Chamber shall hear in camera the views of the Prosecutor , the defence , the witness and the victim or his or her legal representative , if any , and shall take into account whether that evidence has a sufficient degree of probative value to an issue in the case and the prejudice that such evidence may cause , in accordance with article 69 , paragraph 4 . For this purpose , the Chamber shall have regard to article 21 , paragraph 3 , and articles 67 and 68 , and shall be guided by principles ( a ) to ( d ) of rule 70 , especially with respect to the proposed questioning of a victim . Where the Chamber determines that the evidence referred to in sub-rule 2 is admissible in the proceedings , the Chamber shall state on the record the specific purpose for which the evidence is admissible . In evaluating the evidence during the proceedings , the Chamber shall apply principles ( a ) to ( d ) of rule 70 . Rule 73 Privileged communications and information Without prejudice to article 67 , paragraph 1 ( b ) , communications made in the context of the professional relationship between a person and his or her legal counsel shall be regarded as privileged , and consequently not subject to disclosure , unless : ( a ) The person consents in writing to such disclosure ; or ( b ) The person voluntarily disclosed the content of the communication to a third party , and that third party then gives evidence of that disclosure . Having regard to rule 63 , sub-rule 5 , communications made in the context of a class of professional or other confidential relationships shall be regarded as privileged , and consequently not subject to disclosure , under the same terms as in sub-rules 1 ( a ) and 1 ( b ) if a Chamber decides in respect of that class that : ( a ) Communications occurring within that class of relationship are made in the course of a confidential relationship producing a reasonable expectation of privacy and non-disclosure ; ( b ) Confidentiality is essential to the nature and type of relationship between the person and the confidant ; and ( c ) Recognition of the privilege would further the objectives of the Statute and the Rules . In making a decision under sub-rule 2 , the Court shall give particular regard to recognizing as privileged those communications made in the context of the professional relationship between a person and his or her medical doctor , psychiatrist , psychologist or counsellor , in particular those related to or involving victims , or between a person and a member of a religious clergy ; and in the latter case , the Court shall recognize as privileged those communications made in the context of a sacred confession where it is an integral part of the practice of that religion . The Court shall regard as privileged , and consequently not subject to disclosure , including by way of testimony of any present or past official or employee of the International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) , any information , documents or other evidence which it came into the possession of in the course , or as a consequence , of the performance by ICRC of its functions under the Statutes of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement , unless : ( a ) After consultations undertaken pursuant to sub-rule 6 , ICRC does not object in writing to such disclosure , or otherwise has waived this privilege ; or ( b ) Such information , documents or other evidence is contained in public statements and documents of ICRC . Nothing in sub-rule 4 shall affect the admissibility of the same evidence obtained from a source other than ICRC and its officials or employees when such evidence has also been acquired by this source independently of ICRC and its officials or employees . If the Court determines that ICRC information , documents or other evidence are of great importance for a particular case , consultations shall be held between the Court and ICRC in order to seek to resolve the matter by cooperative means , bearing in mind the circumstances of the case , the relevance of the evidence sought , whether the evidence could be obtained from a source other than ICRC , the interests of justice and of victims , and the performance of the Court's and ICRC's functions . Rule 74 Self-incrimination by a witness Unless a witness has been notified pursuant to rule 190 , the Chamber shall notify a witness of the provisions of this rule before his or her testimony . Where the Court determines that an assurance with respect to self-incrimination should be provided to a particular witness , it shall provide the assurances under sub-rule 3 , paragraph ( c ) , before the witness attends , directly or pursuant to a request under article 93 , paragraph ( 1 ) ( e ) . ( a ) A witness may object to making any statement that might tend to incriminate him or her . ( b ) Where the witness has attended after receiving an assurance under sub-rule 2 , the Court may require the witness to answer the question or questions . ( c ) In the case of other witnesses , the Chamber may require the witness to answer the question or questions , after assuring the witness that the evidence provided in response to the questions : ( i ) Will be kept confidential and will not be disclosed to the public or any State ; and ( ii ) Will not be used either directly or indirectly against that person in any subsequent prosecution by the Court , except under articles 70 and 71 . Before giving such an assurance , the Chamber shall seek the views of the Prosecutor , ex parte , to determine if the assurance should be given to this particular witness . In determining whether to require the witness to answer , the Chamber shall consider : ( a ) The importance of the anticipated evidence ; ( b ) Whether the witness would be providing unique evidence ; ( c ) The nature of the possible incrimination , if known ; and ( d ) The sufficiency of the protections for the witness , in the particular circumstances . If the Chamber determines that it would not be appropriate to provide an assurance to this witness , it shall not require the witness to answer the question . If the Chamber determines not to require the witness to answer , it may still continue the questioning of the witness on other matters . In order to give effect to the assurance , the Chamber shall : ( a ) Order that the evidence of the witness be given in camera ; ( b ) Order that the identity of the witness and the content of the evidence given shall not be disclosed , in any manner , and provide that the breach of any such order will be subject to sanction under article 71 ; ( c ) Specifically advise the Prosecutor , the accused , the defence counsel , the legal representative of the victim and any Court staff present of the consequences of a breach of the order under subparagraph ( b ) ; ( d ) Order the sealing of any record of the proceedings ; and ( e ) Use protective measures with respect to any decision of the Court to ensure that the identity of the witness and the content of the evidence given are not disclosed . Where the Prosecutor is aware that the testimony of any witness may raise issues with respect to self-incrimination , he or she shall request an in camera hearing and advise the Chamber of this , in advance of the testimony of the witness . The Chamber may impose the measures outlined in sub-rule 7 for all or a part of the testimony of that witness . The accused , the defence counsel or the witness may advise the Prosecutor or the Chamber that the testimony of a witness will raise issues of self-incrimination before the witness testifies and the Chamber may take the measures outlined in sub-rule 7 . If an issue of self-incrimination arises in the course of the proceedings , the Chamber shall suspend the taking of the testimony and provide the witness with an opportunity to obtain legal advice if he or she so requests for the purpose of the application of the rule . Rule 75 Incrimination by family members A witness appearing before the Court , who is a spouse , child or parent of an accused person , shall not be required by a Chamber to make any statement that might tend to incriminate that accused person . However , the witness may choose to make such a statement . In evaluating the testimony of a witness , a Chamber may take into account that the witness , referred to in sub-rule 1 , objected to reply to a question which was intended to contradict a previous statement made by the witness , or the witness was selective in choosing which questions to answer . Section II Disclosure Rule 76 Pre-trial disclosure relating to prosecution witnesses The Prosecutor shall provide the defence with the names of witnesses whom the Prosecutor intends to call to testify and copies of any prior statements made by those witnesses . This shall be done sufficiently in advance to enable the adequate preparation of the defence . The Prosecutor shall subsequently advise the defence of the names of any additional prosecution witnesses and provide copies of their statements when the decision is made to call those witnesses . The statements of prosecution witnesses shall be made available in original and in a language which the accused fully understands and speaks . This rule is subject to the protection and privacy of victims and witnesses and the protection of confidential information as provided for in the Statute and rules 81 and 82 . Rule 77 Inspection of material in possession or control of the Prosecutor The Prosecutor shall , subject to the restrictions on disclosure as provided for in the Statute and in rules 81 and 82 , permit the defence to inspect any books , documents , photographs and other tangible objects in the possession or control of the Prosecutor , which are material to the preparation of the defence or are intended for use by the Prosecutor as evidence for the purposes of the confirmation hearing or at trial , as the case may be , or were obtained from or belonged to the person . Rule 78 Inspection of material in possession or control of the defence The defence shall permit the Prosecutor to inspect any books , documents , photographs and other tangible objects in the possession or control of the defence , which are intended for use by the defence as evidence for the purposes of the confirmation hearing or at trial . Rule 79 Disclosure by the defence The defence shall notify the Prosecutor of its intent to : ( a ) Raise the existence of an alibi , in which case the notification shall specify the place or places at which the accused claims to have been present at the time of the alleged crime and the names of witnesses and any other evidence upon which the accused intends to rely to establish the alibi ; or ( b ) Raise a ground for excluding criminal responsibility provided for in article 31 , paragraph 1 , in which case the notification shall specify the names of witnesses and any other evidence upon which the accused intends to rely to establish the ground . With due regard to time limits set forth in other rules , notification under sub-rule 1 shall be given sufficiently in advance to enable the Prosecutor to prepare adequately and to respond . The Chamber dealing with the matter may grant the Prosecutor an adjournment to address the issue raised by the defence . Failure of the defence to provide notice under this rule shall not limit its right to raise matters dealt with in sub-rule 1 and to present evidence . This rule does not prevent a Chamber from ordering disclosure of any other evidence . Rule 80 Procedures for raising a ground for excluding criminal responsibility under article 31 , paragraph 3 The defence shall give notice to both the Trial Chamber and the Prosecutor if it intends to raise a ground for excluding criminal responsibility under article 31 , paragraph 3 . This shall be done sufficiently in advance of the commencement of the trial to enable the Prosecutor to prepare adequately for trial . Following notice given under sub-rule 1 , the Trial Chamber shall hear both the Prosecutor and the defence before deciding whether the defence can raise a ground for excluding criminal responsibility . If the defence is permitted to raise the ground , the Trial Chamber may grant the Prosecutor an adjournment to address that ground . Rule 81 Restrictions on disclosure Reports , memoranda or other internal documents prepared by a party , its assistants or representatives in connection with the investigation or preparation of the case are not subject to disclosure . Where material or information is in the possession or control of the Prosecutor which must be disclosed in accordance with the Statute , but disclosure may prejudice further or ongoing investigations , the Prosecutor may apply to the Chamber dealing with the matter for a ruling as to whether the material or information must be disclosed to the defence . The matter shall be heard on an ex parte basis by the Chamber . However , the Prosecutor may not introduce such material or information into evidence during the confirmation hearing or the trial without adequate prior disclosure to the accused . Where steps have been taken to ensure the confidentiality of information , in accordance with articles 54 , 57 , 64 , 72 and 93 , and , in accordance with article 68 , to protect the safety of witnesses and victims and members of their families , such information shall not be disclosed , except in accordance with those articles . When the disclosure of such information may create a risk to the safety of the witness , the Court shall take measures to inform the witness in advance . The Chamber dealing with the matter shall , on its own motion or at the request of the Prosecutor , the accused or any State , take the necessary steps to ensure the confidentiality of information , in accordance with articles 54 , 72 and 93 , and , in accordance with article 68 , to protect the safety of witnesses and victims and members of their families , including by authorizing the non-disclosure of their identity prior to the commencement of the trial . Where material or information is in the possession or control of the Prosecutor which is withheld under article 68 , paragraph 5 , such material and information may not be subsequently introduced into evidence during the confirmation hearing or the trial without adequate prior disclosure to the accused . Where material or information is in the possession or control of the defence which is subject to disclosure , it may be withheld in circumstances similar to those which would allow the Prosecutor to rely on article 68 , paragraph 5 , and a summary thereof submitted instead . Such material and information may not be subsequently introduced into evidence during the confirmation hearing or the trial without adequate prior disclosure to the Prosecutor . Rule 82 Restrictions on disclosure of material and information protected under article 54 , paragraph 3 ( e ) Where material or information is in the possession or control of the Prosecutor which is protected under article 54 , paragraph 3 ( e ) , the Prosecutor may not subsequently introduce such material or information into evidence without the prior consent of the provider of the material or information and adequate prior disclosure to the accused . If the Prosecutor introduces material or information protected under article 54 , paragraph 3 ( e ) , into evidence , a Chamber may not order the production of additional evidence received from the provider of the initial material or information , nor may a Chamber for the purpose of obtaining such additional evidence itself summon the provider or a representative of the provider as a witness or order their attendance . If the Prosecutor calls a witness to introduce in evidence any material or information which has been protected under article 54 , paragraph 3 ( e ) , a Chamber may not compel that witness to answer any question relating to the material or information or its origin , if the witness declines to answer on grounds of confidentiality . The right of the accused to challenge evidence which has been protected under article 54 , paragraph 3 ( e ) , shall remain unaffected subject only to the limitations contained in sub-rules 2 and 3 . A Chamber dealing with the matter may order , upon application by the defence , that , in the interests of justice , material or information in the possession of the accused , which has been provided to the accused under the same conditions as set forth in article 54 , paragraph 3 ( e ) , and which is to be introduced into evidence , shall be subject mutatis mutandis to sub-rules 1 , 2 and 3 . Rule 83 Ruling on exculpatory evidence under article 67 , paragraph 2 The Prosecutor may request as soon as practicable a hearing on an ex parte basis before the Chamber dealing with the matter for the purpose of obtaining a ruling under article 67 , paragraph 2 . Rule 84 Disclosure and additional evidence for trial In order to enable the parties to prepare for trial and to facilitate the fair and expeditious conduct of the proceedings , the Trial Chamber shall , in accordance with article 64 , paragraphs 3 ( c ) and 6 ( d ) , and article 67 , paragraph ( 2 ) , and subject to article 68 , paragraph 5 , make any necessary orders for the disclosure of documents or information not previously disclosed and for the production of additional evidence . To avoid delay and to ensure that the trial commences on the set date , any such orders shall include strict time limits which shall be kept under review by the Trial Chamber . Section III Victims and witnesses Subsection 1 Definition and general principle relating to victims Rule 85 Definition of victims For the purposes of the Statute and the Rules of Procedure and Evidence : ( a ) "" Victims "" means natural persons who have suffered harm as a result of the commission of any crime within the jurisdiction of the Court ; ( b ) Victims may include organizations or institutions that have sustained direct harm to any of their property which is dedicated to religion , education , art or science or charitable purposes , and to their historic monuments , hospitals and other places and objects for humanitarian purposes . Rule 86 General principle A Chamber in making any direction or order , and other organs of the Court in performing their functions under the Statute or the Rules , shall take into account the needs of all victims and witnesses in accordance with article 68 , in particular , children , elderly persons , persons with disabilities and victims of sexual or gender violence . Subsection 2 Protection of victims and witnesses Rule 87 Protective measures Upon the motion of the Prosecutor or the defence or upon the request of a witness or a victim or his or her legal representative , if any , or on its own motion , and after having consulted with the Victims and Witnesses Unit , as appropriate , a Chamber may order measures to protect a victim , a witness or another person at risk on account of testimony given by a witness pursuant to article 68 , paragraphs 1 and 2 . The Chamber shall seek to obtain , whenever possible , the consent of the person in respect of whom the protective measure is sought prior to ordering the protective measure . A motion or request under sub-rule 1 shall be governed by rule 134 , provided that : ( a ) Such a motion or request shall not be submitted ex parte ; ( b ) A request by a witness or by a victim or his or her legal representative , if any , shall be served on both the Prosecutor and the defence , each of whom shall have the opportunity to respond ; ( c ) A motion or request affecting a particular witness or a particular victim shall be served on that witness or victim or his or her legal representative , if any , in addition to the other party , each of whom shall have the opportunity to respond ; ( d ) When the Chamber proceeds on its own motion , notice and opportunity to respond shall be given to the Prosecutor and the defence , and to any witness or any victim or his or her legal representative , if any , who would be affected by such protective measure ; and ( e ) A motion or request may be filed under seal , and , if so filed , shall remain sealed until otherwise ordered by a Chamber . Responses to motions or requests filed under seal shall also be filed under seal . A Chamber may , on a motion or request under sub-rule 1 , hold a hearing , which shall be conducted in camera , to determine whether to order measures to prevent the release to the public or press and information agencies , of the identity or the location of a victim , a witness or other person at risk on account of testimony given by a witness by ordering , inter alia : ( a ) That the name of the victim , witness or other person at risk on account of testimony given by a witness or any information which could lead to his or her identification , be expunged from the public records of the Chamber ; ( b ) That the Prosecutor , the defence or any other participant in the proceedings be prohibited from disclosing such information to a third party ; ( c ) That testimony be presented by electronic or other special means , including the use of technical means enabling the alteration of pictures or voice , the use of audio-visual technology , in particular videoconferencing and closed-circuit television , and the exclusive use of the sound media ; ( d ) That a pseudonym be used for a victim , a witness or other person at risk on account of testimony given by a witness ; or ( e ) That a Chamber conduct part of its proceedings in camera . Rule 88 Special measures Upon the motion of the Prosecutor or the defence , or upon the request of a witness or a victim or his or her legal representative , if any , or on its own motion , and after having consulted with the Victims and Witnesses Unit , as appropriate , a Chamber may , taking into account the views of the victim or witness , order special measures such as , but not limited to , measures to facilitate the testimony of a traumatized victim or witness , a child , an elderly person or a victim of sexual violence , pursuant to article 68 , paragraphs 1 and 2 . The Chamber shall seek to obtain , whenever possible , the consent of the person in respect of whom the special measure is sought prior to ordering that measure . A Chamber may hold a hearing on a motion or a request under sub-rule 1 , if necessary in camera or ex parte , to determine whether to order any such special measure , including but not limited to an order that a counsel , a legal representative , a psychologist or a family member be permitted to attend during the testimony of the victim or the witness . For inter partes motions or requests filed under this rule , the provisions of rule 87 , sub-rules 2 ( b ) to ( d ) , shall apply mutatis mutandis . A motion or request filed under this rule may be filed under seal , and if so filed shall remain sealed until otherwise ordered by a Chamber . Any responses to inter partes motions or requests filed under seal shall also be filed under seal . Taking into consideration that violations of the privacy of a witness or victim may create risk to his or her security , a Chamber shall be vigilant in controlling the manner of questioning a witness or victim so as to avoid any harassment or intimidation , paying particular attention to attacks on victims of crimes of sexual violence . Subsection 3 Participation of victims in the proceedings Rule 89 Application for participation of victims in the proceedings In order to present their views and concerns , victims shall make written application to the Registrar , who shall transmit the application to the relevant Chamber . Subject to the provisions of the Statute , in particular article 68 , paragraph 1 , the Registrar shall provide a copy of the application to the Prosecutor and the defence , who shall be entitled to reply within a time limit to be set by the Chamber . Subject to the provisions of sub-rule 2 , the Chamber shall then specify the proceedings and manner in which participation is considered appropriate , which may include making opening and closing statements . The Chamber , on its own initiative or on the application of the Prosecutor or the defence , may reject the application if it considers that the person is not a victim or that the criteria set forth in article 68 , paragraph 3 , are not otherwise fulfilled . A victim whose application has been rejected may file a new application later in the proceedings . An application referred to in this rule may also be made by a person acting with the consent of the victim , or a person acting on behalf of a victim , in the case of a victim who is a child or , when necessary , a victim who is disabled . Where there are a number of applications , the Chamber may consider the applications in such a manner as to ensure the effectiveness of the proceedings and may issue one decision . Rule 90 Legal representatives of victims A victim shall be free to choose a legal representative . Where there are a number of victims , the Chamber may , for the purposes of ensuring the effectiveness of the proceedings , request the victims or particular groups of victims , if necessary with the assistance of the Registry , to choose a common legal representative or representatives . In facilitating the coordination of victim representation , the Registry may provide assistance , inter alia , by referring the victims to a list of counsel , maintained by the Registry , or suggesting one or more common legal representatives . If the victims are unable to choose a common legal representative or representatives within a time limit that the Chamber may decide , the Chamber may request the Registrar to choose one or more common legal representatives . The Chamber and the Registry shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that in the selection of common legal representatives , the distinct interests of the victims , particularly as provided in article 68 , paragraph 1 , are represented and that any conflict of interest is avoided . A victim or group of victims who lack the necessary means to pay for a common legal representative chosen by the Court may receive assistance from the Registry , including , as appropriate , financial assistance . A legal representative of a victim or victims shall have the qualifications set forth in rule 22 , sub-rule 1 . Rule 91 Participation of legal representatives in the proceedings A Chamber may modify a previous ruling under rule 89 . A legal representative of a victim shall be entitled to attend and participate in the proceedings in accordance with the terms of the ruling of the Chamber and any modification thereof given under rules 89 and 90 . This shall include participation in hearings unless , in the circumstances of the case , the Chamber concerned is of the view that the representative's intervention should be confined to written observations or submissions . The Prosecutor and the defence shall be allowed to reply to any oral or written observation by the legal representative for victims . ( a ) When a legal representative attends and participates in accordance with this rule , and wishes to question a witness , including questioning under rules 67 and 68 , an expert or the accused , the legal representative must make application to the Chamber . The Chamber may require the legal representative to provide a written note of the questions and in that case the questions shall be communicated to the Prosecutor and , if appropriate , the defence , who shall be allowed to make observations within a time limit set by the Chamber . ( b ) The Chamber shall then issue a ruling on the request , taking into account the stage of the proceedings , the rights of the accused , the interests of witnesses , the need for a fair , impartial and expeditious trial and in order to give effect to article 68 , paragraph 3 . The ruling may include directions on the manner and order of the questions and the production of documents in accordance with the powers of the Chamber under article 64 . The Chamber may , if it considers it appropriate , put the question to the witness , expert or accused on behalf of the victim's legal representative . For a hearing limited to reparations under article 75 , the restrictions on questioning by the legal representative set forth in sub-rule 2 shall not apply . In that case , the legal representative may , with the permission of the Chamber concerned , question witnesses , experts and the person concerned . Rule 92 Notification to victims and their legal representatives This rule on notification to victims and their legal representatives shall apply to all proceedings before the Court , except in proceedings provided for in Part 2 . In order to allow victims to apply for participation in the proceedings in accordance with rule 89 , the Court shall notify victims concerning the decision of the Prosecutor not to initiate an investigation or not to prosecute pursuant to article 53 . Such a notification shall be given to victims or their legal representatives who have already participated in the proceedings or , as far as possible , to those who have communicated with the Court in respect of the situation or case in question . The Chamber may order the measures outlined in sub-rule 8 if it considers it appropriate in the particular circumstances . In order to allow victims to apply for participation in the proceedings in accordance with rule 89 , the Court shall notify victims regarding its decision to hold a hearing to confirm charges pursuant to article 61 . Such a notification shall be given to victims or their legal representatives who have already participated in the proceedings or , as far as possible , to those who have communicated with the Court in respect of the case in question . When a notification for participation as provided for in sub-rules 2 and 3 has been given , any subsequent notification as referred to in sub-rules 5 and 6 shall only be provided to victims or their legal representatives who may participate in the proceedings in accordance with a ruling of the Chamber pursuant to rule 89 and any modification thereof . In a manner consistent with the ruling made under rules 89 to 91 , victims or their legal representatives participating in proceedings shall , in respect of those proceedings , be notified by the Registrar in a timely manner of : ( a ) Proceedings before the Court , including the date of hearings and any postponements thereof , and the date of delivery of the decision ; ( b ) Requests , submissions , motions and other documents relating to such requests , submissions or motions . Where victims or their legal representatives have participated in a certain stage of the proceedings , the Registrar shall notify them as soon as possible of the decisions of the Court in those proceedings . Notifications as referred to in sub-rules 5 and 6 shall be in writing or , where written notification is not possible , in any other form as appropriate . The Registry shall keep a record of all notifications . Where necessary , the Registrar may seek the cooperation of States Parties in accordance with article 93 , paragraph 1 ( d ) and ( l ) . For notification as referred to in sub-rule 3 and otherwise at the request of a Chamber , the Registrar shall take necessary measures to give adequate publicity to the proceedings . In doing so , the Registrar may seek , in accordance with Part 9 , the cooperation of relevant States Parties , and seek the assistance of intergovernmental organizations . Rule 93 Views of victims or their legal representatives A Chamber may seek the views of victims or their legal representatives participating pursuant to rules 89 to 91 on any issue , inter alia , in relation to issues referred to in rules 107 , 109 , 125 , 128 , 136 , 139 and 191 . In addition , a Chamber may seek the views of other victims , as appropriate . Subsection 4 Reparations to victims Rule 94 Procedure upon request A victim's request for reparations under article 75 shall be made in writing and filed with the Registrar . It shall contain the following particulars : ( a ) The identity and address of the claimant ; ( b ) A description of the injury , loss or harm ; ( c ) The location and date of the incident and , to the extent possible , the identity of the person or persons the victim believes to be responsible for the injury , loss or harm ; ( d ) Where restitution of assets , property or other tangible items is sought , a description of them ; ( e ) Claims for compensation ; ( f ) Claims for rehabilitation and other forms of remedy ; ( g ) To the extent possible , any relevant supporting documentation , including names and addresses of witnesses . At commencement of the trial and subject to any protective measures , the Court shall ask the Registrar to provide notification of the request to the person or persons named in the request or identified in the charges and , to the extent possible , to any interested persons or any interested States . Those notified shall file with the Registry any representation made under article 75 , paragraph 3 . Rule 95 Procedure on the motion of the Court In cases where the Court intends to proceed on its own motion pursuant to article 75 , paragraph 1 , it shall ask the Registrar to provide notification of its intention to the person or persons against whom the Court is considering making a determination , and , to the extent possible , to victims , interested persons and interested States . Those notified shall file with the Registry any representation made under article 75 , paragraph 3 . If , as a result of notification under sub-rule 1 : ( a ) A victim makes a request for reparations , that request will be determined as if it had been brought under rule 94 ; ( b ) A victim requests that the Court does not make an order for reparations , the Court shall not proceed to make an individual order in respect of that victim . Rule 96 Publication of reparation proceedings Without prejudice to any other rules on notification of proceedings , the Registrar shall , insofar as practicable , notify the victims or their legal representatives and the person or persons concerned . The Registrar shall also , having regard to any information provided by the Prosecutor , take all the necessary measures to give adequate publicity of the reparation proceedings before the Court , to the extent possible , to other victims , interested persons and interested States . In taking the measures described in sub-rule 1 , the Court may seek , in accordance with Part 9 , the cooperation of relevant States Parties , and seek the assistance of intergovernmental organizations in order to give publicity , as widely as possible and by all possible means , to the reparation proceedings before the Court . Rule 97 Assessment of reparations Taking into account the scope and extent of any damage , loss or injury , the Court may award reparations on an individualized basis or , where it deems it appropriate , on a collective basis or both . At the request of victims or their legal representatives , or at the request of the convicted person , or on its own motion , the Court may appoint appropriate experts to assist it in determining the scope , extent of any damage , loss and injury to , or in respect of victims and to suggest various options concerning the appropriate types and modalities of reparations . The Court shall invite , as appropriate , victims or their legal representatives , the convicted person as well as interested persons and interested States to make observations on the reports of the experts . In all cases , the Court shall respect the rights of victims and the convicted person . Rule 98 Trust Fund Individual awards for reparations shall be made directly against a convicted person . The Court may order that an award for reparations against a convicted person be deposited with the Trust Fund where at the time of making the order it is impossible or impracticable to make individual awards directly to each victim . The award for reparations thus deposited in the Trust Fund shall be separated from other resources of the Trust Fund and shall be forwarded to each victim as soon as possible . The Court may order that an award for reparations against a convicted person be made through the Trust Fund where the number of the victims and the scope , forms and modalities of reparations makes a collective award more appropriate . Following consultations with interested States and the Trust Fund , the Court may order that an award for reparations be made through the Trust Fund to an intergovernmental , international or national organization approved by the Trust Fund . Other resources of the Trust Fund may be used for the benefit of victims subject to the provisions of article 79 . Rule 99 Cooperation and protective measures for the purpose of forfeiture under articles 57 , paragraph 3 ( e ) , and 75 , paragraph 4 The Pre-Trial Chamber , pursuant to article 57 , paragraph 3 ( e ) , or the Trial Chamber , pursuant to article 75 , paragraph 4 , may , on its own motion or on the application of the Prosecutor or at the request of the victims or their legal representatives who have made a request for reparations or who have given a written undertaking to do so , determine whether measures should be requested . Notice is not required unless the Court determines , in the particular circumstances of the case , that notification could not jeopardize the effectiveness of the measures requested . In the latter case , the Registrar shall provide notification of the proceedings to the person against whom a request is made and so far as is possible to any interested persons or interested States . If an order is made without prior notification , the relevant Chamber shall request the Registrar , as soon as is consistent with the effectiveness of the measures requested , to notify those against whom a request is made and , to the extent possible , to any interested persons or any interested States and invite them to make observations as to whether the order should be revoked or otherwise modified . The Court may make orders as to the timing and conduct of any proceedings necessary to determine these issues . Section IV Miscellaneous provisions Rule 100 Place of the proceedings In a particular case , where the Court considers that it would be in the interests of justice , it may decide to sit in a State other than the host State . An application or recommendation changing the place where the Court sits may be filed at any time after the initiation of an investigation , either by the Prosecutor , the defence or by a majority of the judges of the Court . Such an application or recommendation shall be addressed to the Presidency . It shall be made in writing and specify in which State the Court would sit . The Presidency shall satisfy itself of the views of the relevant Chamber . The Presidency shall consult the State where the Court intends to sit . If that State agrees that the Court can sit in that State , then the decision to sit in a State other than the host State shall be taken by the judges , in plenary session , by a two-thirds majority . Rule 101 Time limits In making any order setting time limits regarding the conduct of any proceedings , the Court shall have regard to the need to facilitate fair and expeditious proceedings , bearing in mind in particular the rights of the defence and the victims . Taking into account the rights of the accused , in particular under article 67 , paragraph ( 1 ) ( c ) , all those participating in the proceedings to whom any order is directed shall endeavour to act as expeditiously as possible , within the time limit ordered by the Court . Rule 102 Communications other than in writing Where a person is unable , due to a disability or illiteracy , to make a written request , application , observation or other communication to the Court , the person may make such request , application , observation or communication in audio , video or other electronic form . Rule 103 Amicus curiae and other forms of submission At any stage of the proceedings , a Chamber may , if it considers it desirable for the proper determination of the case , invite or grant leave to a State , organization or person to submit , in writing or orally , any observation on any issue that the Chamber deems appropriate . The Prosecutor and the defence shall have the opportunity to respond to the observations submitted under sub-rule 1 . A written observation submitted under sub-rule 1 shall be filed with the Registrar , who shall provide copies to the Prosecutor and the defence . The Chamber shall determine what time limits shall apply to the filing of such observations . Chapter 5 Investigation and prosecution Section I Decision of the Prosecutor regarding the initiation of an investigation under article 53 , paragraphs 1 and 2 Rule 104 Evaluation of information by the Prosecutor In acting pursuant to article 53 , paragraph 1 , the Prosecutor shall , in evaluating the information made available to him or her , analyse the seriousness of the information received . For the purposes of sub-rule 1 , the Prosecutor may seek additional information from States , organs of the United Nations , intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations , or other reliable sources that he or she deems appropriate , and may receive written or oral testimony at the seat of the Court . The procedure set out in rule 47 shall apply to the receiving of such testimony . Rule 105 Notification of a decision by the Prosecutor not to initiate an investigation When the Prosecutor decides not to initiate an investigation under article 53 , paragraph 1 , he or she shall promptly inform in writing the State or States that referred a situation under article 14 , or the Security Council in respect of a situation covered by article 13 , paragraph ( b ) . When the Prosecutor decides not to submit to the Pre-Trial Chamber a request for authorization of an investigation , rule 49 shall apply . The notification referred to in sub-rule 1 shall contain the conclusion of the Prosecutor and , having regard to article 68 , paragraph 1 , the reasons for the conclusion . In case the Prosecutor decides not to investigate solely on the basis of article 53 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , he or she shall inform in writing the Pre-Trial Chamber promptly after making that decision . The notification shall contain the conclusion of the Prosecutor and the reasons for the conclusion . Rule 106 Notification of a decision by the Prosecutor not to prosecute When the Prosecutor decides that there is not a sufficient basis for prosecution under article 53 , paragraph 2 , he or she shall promptly inform in writing the Pre-Trial Chamber , together with the State or States that referred a situation under article 14 , or the Security Council in respect of a situation covered by article 13 , paragraph ( b ) . The notifications referred to in sub-rule 1 shall contain the conclusion of the Prosecutor and , having regard to article 68 , paragraph 1 , the reasons for the conclusion . Section II Procedure under article 53 , paragraph 3 Rule 107 Request for review under article 53 , paragraph 3 ( a ) A request under article 53 , paragraph 3 , for a review of a decision by the Prosecutor not to initiate an investigation or not to prosecute shall be made in writing , and be supported with reasons , within 90 days following the notification given under rule 105 or 106 . The Pre-Trial Chamber may request the Prosecutor to transmit the information or documents in his or her possession , or summaries thereof , that the Chamber considers necessary for the conduct of the review . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall take such measures as are necessary under articles 54 , 72 and 93 to protect the information and documents referred to in sub-rule 2 and , under article 68 , paragraph 5 , to protect the safety of witnesses and victims and members of their families . When a State or the Security Council makes a request referred to in sub-rule 1 , the Pre-Trial Chamber may seek further observations from them . Where an issue of jurisdiction or admissibility of the case is raised , rule 59 shall apply . Rule 108 Decision of the Pre-Trial Chamber under article 53 , paragraph 3 ( a ) A decision of the Pre-Trial Chamber under article 53 , paragraph 3 ( a ) , must be concurred in by a majority of its judges and shall contain reasons . It shall be communicated to all those who participated in the review . Where the Pre-Trial Chamber requests the Prosecutor to review , in whole or in part , his or her decision not to initiate an investigation or not to prosecute , the Prosecutor shall reconsider that decision as soon as possible . Once the Prosecutor has taken a final decision , he or she shall notify the Pre-Trial Chamber in writing . This notification shall contain the conclusion of the Prosecutor and the reasons for the conclusion . It shall be communicated to all those who participated in the review . Rule 109 Review by the Pre-Trial Chamber under article 53 , paragraph 3 ( b ) Within 180 days following a notification given under rule 105 or 106 , the Pre-Trial Chamber may on its own initiative decide to review a decision of the Prosecutor taken solely under article 53 , paragraph 1 ( c ) or 2 ( c ) . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall inform the Prosecutor of its intention to review his or her decision and shall establish a time limit within which the Prosecutor may submit observations and other material . In cases where a request has been submitted to the Pre-Trial Chamber by a State or by the Security Council , they shall also be informed and may submit observations in accordance with rule 107 . Rule 110 Decision by the Pre-Trial Chamber under article 53 , paragraph 3 ( b ) A decision by the Pre-Trial Chamber to confirm or not to confirm a decision taken by the Prosecutor solely under article 53 , paragraph 1 ( c ) or 2 ( c ) , must be concurred in by a majority of its judges and shall contain reasons . It shall be communicated to all those who participated in the review . When the Pre-Trial Chamber does not confirm the decision by the Prosecutor referred to in sub-rule 1 , he or she shall proceed with the investigation or prosecution . Section III Collection of evidence Rule 111 Record of questioning in general A record shall be made of formal statements made by any person who is questioned in connection with an investigation or with proceedings . The record shall be signed by the person who records and conducts the questioning and by the person who is questioned and his or her counsel , if present , and , where applicable , the Prosecutor or the judge who is present . The record shall note the date , time and place of , and all persons present during the questioning . It shall also be noted when someone has not signed the record as well as the reasons therefor . When the Prosecutor or national authorities question a person , due regard shall be given to article 55 . When a person is informed of his or her rights under article 55 , paragraph 2 , the fact that this information has been provided shall be noted in the record . Rule 112 Recording of questioning in particular cases Whenever the Prosecutor questions a person to whom article 55 , paragraph 2 , applies , or for whom a warrant of arrest or a summons to appear has been issued under article 58 , paragraph 7 , the questioning shall be audio - or video-recorded , in accordance with the following procedure : ( a ) The person questioned shall be informed , in a language he or she fully understands and speaks , that the questioning is to be audio - or video-recorded , and that the person concerned may object if he or she so wishes . The fact that this information has been provided and the response given by the person concerned shall be noted in the record . The person may , before replying , speak in private with his or her counsel , if present . If the person questioned refuses to be audio - or video-recorded , the procedure in rule 111 shall be followed ; ( b ) A waiver of the right to be questioned in the presence of counsel shall be recorded in writing and , if possible , be audio - or video-recorded ; ( c ) In the event of an interruption in the course of questioning , the fact and the time of the interruption shall be recorded before the audio - or video-recording ends as well as the time of resumption of the questioning ; ( d ) At the conclusion of the questioning , the person questioned shall be offered the opportunity to clarify anything he or she has said and to add anything he or she may wish . The time of conclusion of the questioning shall be noted ; ( e ) The tape shall be transcribed as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the questioning and a copy of the transcript supplied to the person questioned together with a copy of the recorded tape or , if multiple recording apparatus was used , one of the original recorded tapes ; ( f ) The original tape or one of the original tapes shall be sealed in the presence of the person questioned and his or her counsel , if present , under the signature of the Prosecutor and the person questioned and the counsel , if present . The Prosecutor shall make every reasonable effort to record the questioning in accordance with sub-rule 1 . As an exception , a person may be questioned without the questioning being audio - or video-recorded where the circumstances prevent such recording taking place . In this case , the reasons for not recording the questioning shall be stated in writing and the procedure in rule 111 shall be followed . When , pursuant to sub-rule 1 ( a ) or 2 , the questioning is not audio - or video-recorded , the person questioned shall be provided with a copy of his or her statement . The Prosecutor may choose to follow the procedure in this rule when questioning other persons than those mentioned in sub-rule 1 , in particular where the use of such procedures could assist in reducing any subsequent traumatization of a victim of sexual or gender violence , a child or a person with disabilities in providing their evidence . The Prosecutor may make an application to the relevant Chamber . The Pre-Trial Chamber may , in pursuance of article 56 , paragraph 2 , order that the procedure in this rule be applied to the questioning of any person . Rule 113 Collection of information regarding the state of health of the person concerned The Pre-Trial Chamber may , on its own initiative or at the request of the Prosecutor , the person concerned or his or her counsel , order that a person having the rights in article 55 , paragraph 2 , be given a medical , psychological or psychiatric examination . In making its determination , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall consider the nature and purpose of the examination and whether the person consents to the examination . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall appoint one or more experts from the list of experts approved by the Registrar , or an expert approved by the Pre-Trial Chamber at the request of a party . Rule 114 Unique investigative opportunity under article 56 Upon being advised by the Prosecutor in accordance with article 56 , paragraph 1 ( a ) , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall hold consultations without delay with the Prosecutor and , subject to the provisions of article 56 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , with the person who has been arrested or who has appeared before the Court pursuant to summons and his or her counsel , in order to determine the measures to be taken and the modalities of their implementation , which may include measures to ensure that the right to communicate under article 67 , paragraph 1 ( b ) , is protected . A decision of the Pre-Trial Chamber to take measures pursuant to article 56 , paragraph 3 , must be concurred in by a majority of its judges after consultations with the Prosecutor . During the consultations , the Prosecutor may advise the Pre-Trial Chamber that intended measures could jeopardize the proper conduct of the investigation . Rule 115 Collection of evidence in the territory of a State Party under article 57 , paragraph 3 ( d ) Where the Prosecutor considers that article 57 , paragraph 3 ( d ) , applies , the Prosecutor may submit a written request to the Pre-Trial Chamber for authorization to take certain measures in the territory of the State Party in question . After a submission of such a request , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall , whenever possible , inform and invite views from the State Party concerned . In arriving at its determination as to whether the request is well founded , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall take into account any views expressed by the State Party concerned . The Pre-Trial Chamber may , on its own initiative or at the request of the Prosecutor or the State Party concerned , decide to hold a hearing . An authorization under article 57 , paragraph 3 ( d ) , shall be issued in the form of an order and shall state the reasons , based on the criteria set forth in that paragraph . The order may specify procedures to be followed in carrying out such collection of evidence . Rule 116 Collection of evidence at the request of the defence under article 57 , paragraph 3 ( b ) The Pre-Trial Chamber shall issue an order or seek cooperation under article 57 , paragraph 3 ( b ) , where it is satisfied : ( a ) That such an order would facilitate the collection of evidence that may be material to the proper determination of the issues being adjudicated , or to the proper preparation of the person's defence ; and ( b ) In a case of cooperation under Part 9 , that sufficient information to comply with article 96 , paragraph 2 , has been provided . Before taking a decision whether to issue an order or seek cooperation under article 57 , paragraph 3 ( b ) , the Pre-Trial Chamber may seek the views of the Prosecutor . Section IV Procedures in respect of restriction and deprivation of liberty Rule 117 Detention in the custodial State The Court shall take measures to ensure that it is informed of the arrest of a person in response to a request made by the Court under article 89 or 92 . Once so informed , the Court shall ensure that the person receives a copy of the arrest warrant issued by the Pre-Trial Chamber under article 58 and any relevant provisions of the Statute . The documents shall be made available in a language that the person fully understands and speaks . At any time after arrest , the person may make a request to the Pre-Trial Chamber for the appointment of counsel to assist with proceedings before the Court and the Pre-Trial Chamber shall take a decision on such request . A challenge as to whether the warrant of arrest was properly issued in accordance with article 58 , paragraph 1 ( a ) and ( b ) , shall be made in writing to the Pre-Trial Chamber . The application shall set out the basis for the challenge . After having obtained the views of the Prosecutor , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall decide on the application without delay . When the competent authority of the custodial State notifies the Pre-Trial Chamber that a request for release has been made by the person arrested , in accordance with article 59 , paragraph 5 , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall provide its recommendations within any time limit set by the custodial State . When the Pre-Trial Chamber is informed that the person has been granted interim release by the competent authority of the custodial State , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall inform the custodial State how and when it would like to receive periodic reports on the status of the interim release . Rule 118 Pre-trial detention at the seat of the Court If the person surrendered to the Court makes an initial request for interim release pending trial , either upon first appearance in accordance with rule 121 or subsequently , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall decide upon the request without delay , after seeking the views of the Prosecutor . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall review its ruling on the release or detention of a person in accordance with article 60 , paragraph 3 , at least every 120 days and may do so at any time on the request of the person or the Prosecutor . After the first appearance , a request for interim release must be made in writing . The Prosecutor shall be given notice of such a request . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall decide after having received observations in writing of the Prosecutor and the detained person . The Pre-Trial Chamber may decide to hold a hearing , at the request of the Prosecutor or the detained person or on its own initiative . A hearing must be held at least once every year . Rule 119 Conditional release The Pre-Trial Chamber may set one or more conditions restricting liberty , including the following : ( a ) The person must not travel beyond territorial limits set by the Pre-Trial Chamber without the explicit agreement of the Chamber ; ( b ) The person must not go to certain places or associate with certain persons as specified by the Pre-Trial Chamber ; ( c ) The person must not contact directly or indirectly victims or witnesses ; ( d ) The person must not engage in certain professional activities ; ( e ) The person must reside at a particular address as specified by the Pre-Trial Chamber ; ( f ) The person must respond when summoned by an authority or qualified person designated by the Pre-Trial Chamber ; ( g ) The person must post bond or provide real or personal security or surety , for which the amount and the schedule and mode of payment shall be determined by the Pre-Trial Chamber ; ( h ) The person must supply the Registrar with all identity documents , particularly his or her passport . At the request of the person concerned or the Prosecutor or on its own initiative , the Pre-Trial Chamber may at any time decide to amend the conditions set pursuant to sub-rule 1 . Before imposing or amending any conditions restricting liberty , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall seek the views of the Prosecutor , the person concerned , any relevant State and victims that have communicated with the Court in that case and whom the Chamber considers could be at risk as a result of a release or conditions imposed . If the Pre-Trial Chamber is convinced that the person concerned has failed to comply with one or more of the obligations imposed , it may , on such basis , at the request of the Prosecutor or on its own initiative , issue a warrant of arrest in respect of the person . When the Pre-Trial Chamber issues a summons to appear pursuant to article 58 , paragraph 7 , and intends to set conditions restricting liberty , it shall ascertain the relevant provisions of the national law of the State receiving the summons . In a manner that is in keeping with the national law of the State receiving the summons , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall proceed in accordance with sub-rules 1 , 2 and 3 . If the Pre-Trial Chamber receives information that the person concerned has failed to comply with conditions imposed , it shall proceed in accordance with sub-rule 4 . Rule 120 Instruments of restraint Personal instruments of restraint shall not be used except as a precaution against escape , for the protection of the person in the custody of the Court and others or for other security reasons , and shall be removed when the person appears before a Chamber . Section V Proceedings with regard to the confirmation of charges under article 61 Rule 121 Proceedings before the confirmation hearing A person subject to a warrant of arrest or a summons to appear under article 58 shall appear before the Pre-Trial Chamber , in the presence of the Prosecutor , promptly upon arriving at the Court . Subject to the provisions of articles 60 and 61 , the person shall enjoy the rights set forth in article 67 . At this first appearance , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall set the date on which it intends to hold a hearing to confirm the charges . It shall ensure that this date , and any postponements under sub-rule 7 , are made public . In accordance with article 61 , paragraph 3 , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall take the necessary decisions regarding disclosure between the Prosecutor and the person in respect of whom a warrant of arrest or a summons to appear has been issued . During disclosure : ( a ) The person concerned may be assisted or represented by the counsel of his or her choice or by a counsel assigned to him or her ; ( b ) The Pre-Trial Chamber shall hold status conferences to ensure that disclosure takes place under satisfactory conditions . For each case , a judge of the Pre-Trial Chamber shall be appointed to organize such status conferences , on his or her own motion , or at the request of the Prosecutor or the person ; ( c ) All evidence disclosed between the Prosecutor and the person for the purposes of the confirmation hearing shall be communicated to the Pre-Trial Chamber . The Prosecutor shall provide to the Pre-Trial Chamber and the person , no later than 30 days before the date of the confirmation hearing , a detailed description of the charges together with a list of the evidence which he or she intends to present at the hearing . Where the Prosecutor intends to amend the charges pursuant to article 61 , paragraph 4 , he or she shall notify the Pre-Trial Chamber and the person no later than 15 days before the date of the hearing of the amended charges together with a list of evidence that the Prosecutor intends to bring in support of those charges at the hearing . Where the Prosecutor intends to present new evidence at the hearing , he or she shall provide the Pre-Trial Chamber and the person with a list of that evidence no later than 15 days before the date of the hearing . If the person intends to present evidence under article 61 , paragraph 6 , he or she shall provide a list of that evidence to the Pre-Trial Chamber no later than 15 days before the date of the hearing . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall transmit the list to the Prosecutor without delay . The person shall provide a list of evidence that he or she intends to present in response to any amended charges or a new list of evidence provided by the Prosecutor . The Prosecutor or the person may ask the Pre-Trial Chamber to postpone the date of the confirmation hearing . The Pre-Trial Chamber may also , on its own motion , decide to postpone the hearing . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall not take into consideration charges and evidence presented after the time limit , or any extension thereof , has expired . The Prosecutor and the person may lodge written submissions with the Pre-Trial Chamber , on points of fact and on law , including grounds for excluding criminal responsibility set forth in article 31 , paragraph 1 , no later than three days before the date of the hearing . A copy of these submissions shall be transmitted immediately to the Prosecutor or the person , as the case may be . The Registry shall create and maintain a full and accurate record of all proceedings before the Pre-Trial Chamber , including all documents transmitted to the Chamber pursuant to this rule . Subject to any restrictions concerning confidentiality and the protection of national security information , the record may be consulted by the Prosecutor , the person and victims or their legal representatives participating in the proceedings pursuant to rules 89 to 91 . Rule 122 Proceedings at the confirmation hearing in the presence of the person charged The Presiding Judge of the Pre-Trial Chamber shall ask the officer of the Registry assisting the Chamber to read out the charges as presented by the Prosecutor . The Presiding Judge shall determine how the hearing is to be conducted and , in particular , may establish the order and the conditions under which he or she intends the evidence contained in the record of the proceedings to be presented . If a question or challenge concerning jurisdiction or admissibility arises , rule 58 applies . Before hearing the matter on the merits , the Presiding Judge of the Pre-Trial Chamber shall ask the Prosecutor and the person whether they intend to raise objections or make observations concerning an issue related to the proper conduct of the proceedings prior to the confirmation hearing . At no subsequent point may the objections and observations made under sub-rule 3 be raised or made again in the confirmation or trial proceedings . If objections or observations referred to in sub-rule 3 are presented , the Presiding Judge of the Pre-Trial Chamber shall invite those referred to in sub-rule 3 to present their arguments , in the order which he or she shall establish . The person shall have the right to reply . If the objections raised or observations made are those referred to in sub-rule 3 , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall decide whether to join the issue raised with the examination of the charges and the evidence , or to separate them , in which case it shall adjourn the confirmation hearing and render a decision on the issues raised . During the hearing on the merits , the Prosecutor and the person shall present their arguments in accordance with article 61 , paragraphs 5 and 6 . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall permit the Prosecutor and the person , in that order , to make final observations . Subject to the provisions of article 61 , article 69 shall apply mutatis mutandis at the confirmation hearing . Rule 123 Measures to ensure the presence of the person concerned at the confirmation hearing When a warrant of arrest or summons to appear in accordance with article 58 , paragraph 7 , has been issued for a person by the Pre-Trial Chamber and the person is arrested or served with the summons , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall ensure that the person is notified of the provisions of article 61 , paragraph 2 . The Pre-Trial Chamber may hold consultations with the Prosecutor , at the request of the latter or on its own initiative , in order to determine whether there is cause to hold a hearing on confirmation of charges under the conditions set forth in article 61 , paragraph 2 ( b ) . When the person concerned has a counsel known to the Court , the consultations shall be held in the presence of the counsel unless the Pre-Trial Chamber decides otherwise . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall ensure that a warrant of arrest for the person concerned has been issued and , if the warrant of arrest has not been executed within a reasonable period of time after the issuance of the warrant , that all reasonable measures have been taken to locate and arrest the person . Rule 124 Waiver of the right to be present at the confirmation hearing If the person concerned is available to the Court but wishes to waive the right to be present at the hearing on confirmation of charges , he or she shall submit a written request to the Pre-Trial Chamber , which may then hold consultations with the Prosecutor and the person concerned , assisted or represented by his or her counsel . A confirmation hearing pursuant to article 61 , paragraph 2 ( a ) , shall only be held when the Pre-Trial Chamber is satisfied that the person concerned understands the right to be present at the hearing and the consequences of waiving this right . The Pre-Trial Chamber may authorize and make provision for the person to observe the hearing from outside the courtroom through the use of communications technology , if required . The waiving of the right to be present at the hearing does not prevent the Pre-Trial Chamber from receiving written observations on issues before the Chamber from the person concerned . Rule 125 Decision to hold the confirmation hearing in the absence of the person concerned After holding consultations under rules 123 and 124 , the Pre-Trial Chamber shall decide whether there is cause to hold a hearing on confirmation of charges in the absence of the person concerned , and in that case , whether the person may be represented by counsel . The Pre-Trial Chamber shall , when appropriate , set a date for the hearing and make the date public . The decision of the Pre-Trial Chamber shall be notified to the Prosecutor and , if possible , to the person concerned or his or her counsel . If the Pre-Trial Chamber decides not to hold a hearing on confirmation of charges in the absence of the person concerned , and the person is not available to the Court , the confirmation of charges may not take place until the person is available to the Court . The Pre-Trial Chamber may review its decision at any time , at the request of the Prosecutor or on its own initiative . If the Pre-Trial Chamber decides not to hold a hearing on confirmation of charges in the absence of the person concerned , and the person is available to the Court , it shall order the person to appear . Rule 126 Confirmation hearing in the absence of the person concerned The provisions of rules 121 and 122 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the preparation for and holding of a hearing on confirmation of charges in the absence of the person concerned . If the Pre-Trial Chamber has determined that the person concerned shall be represented by counsel , the counsel shall have the opportunity to exercise the rights of that person . When the person who has fled is subsequently arrested and the Court has confirmed the charges upon which the Prosecutor intends to pursue the trial , the person charged shall be committed to the Trial Chamber established under article 61 , paragraph 11 . The person charged may request in writing that the Trial Chamber refer issues to the Pre-Trial Chamber that are necessary for the Chamber's effective and fair functioning in accordance with article 64 , paragraph 4 . Section VI Closure of the pre-trial phase Rule 127 Procedure in the event of different decisions on multiple charges If the Pre-Trial Chamber is ready to confirm some of the charges but adjourns the hearing on other charges under article 61 , paragraph 7 ( c ) , it may decide that the committal of the person concerned to the Trial Chamber on the charges that it is ready to confirm shall be deferred pending the continuation of the hearing . The Pre-Trial Chamber may then establish a time limit within which the Prosecutor may proceed in accordance with article 61 , paragraph 7 ( c ) ( i ) or ( ii ) . Rule 128 Amendment of the charges If the Prosecutor seeks to amend charges already confirmed before the trial has begun , in accordance with article 61 , the Prosecutor shall make a written request to the Pre-Trial Chamber , and that Chamber shall so notify the accused . Before deciding whether to authorize the amendment , the Pre-Trial Chamber may request the accused and the Prosecutor to submit written observations on certain issues of fact or law . If the Pre-Trial Chamber determines that the amendments proposed by the Prosecutor constitute additional or more serious charges , it shall proceed , as appropriate , in accordance with rules 121 and 122 or rules 123 to 126 . Rule 129 Notification of the decision on the confirmation of charges The decision of the Pre-Trial Chamber on the confirmation of charges and the committal of the accused to the Trial Chamber shall be notified , if possible , to the Prosecutor , the person concerned and his or her counsel . Such decision and the record of the proceedings of the Pre-Trial Chamber shall be transmitted to the Presidency . Rule 130 Constitution of the Trial Chamber When the Presidency constitutes a Trial Chamber and refers the case to it , the Presidency shall transmit the decision of the Pre-Trial Chamber and the record of the proceedings to the Trial Chamber . The Presidency may also refer the case to a previously constituted Trial Chamber . Chapter 6 Trial procedure Rule 131 Record of the proceedings transmitted by the Pre-Trial Chamber The Registrar shall maintain the record of the proceedings transmitted by the Pre-Trial Chamber , pursuant to rule 121 , sub-rule 10 . Subject to any restrictions concerning confidentiality and the protection of national security information , the record may be consulted by the Prosecutor , the defence , the representatives of States when they participate in the proceedings , and the victims or their legal representatives participating in the proceedings pursuant to rules 89 to 91 . Rule 132 Status conferences Promptly after it is constituted , the Trial Chamber shall hold a status conference in order to set the date of the trial . The Trial Chamber , on its own motion , or at the request of the Prosecutor or the defence , may postpone the date of the trial . The Trial Chamber shall notify the trial date to all those participating in the proceedings . The Trial Chamber shall ensure that this date and any postponements are made public . In order to facilitate the fair and expeditious conduct of the proceedings , the Trial Chamber may confer with the parties by holding status conferences as necessary . Rule 133 Motions challenging admissibility or jurisdiction Challenges to the jurisdiction of the Court or the admissibility of the case at the commencement of the trial , or subsequently with the leave of the Court , shall be dealt with by the Presiding Judge and the Trial Chamber in accordance with rule 58 . Rule 134 Motions relating to the trial proceedings Prior to the commencement of the trial , the Trial Chamber on its own motion , or at the request of the Prosecutor or the defence , may rule on any issue concerning the conduct of the proceedings . Any request from the Prosecutor or the defence shall be in writing and , unless the request is for an ex parte procedure , served on the other party . For all requests other than those submitted for an ex parte procedure , the other party shall have the opportunity to file a response . At the commencement of the trial , the Trial Chamber shall ask the Prosecutor and the defence whether they have any objections or observations concerning the conduct of the proceedings which have arisen since the confirmation hearings . Such objections or observations may not be raised or made again on a subsequent occasion in the trial proceedings , without leave of the Trial Chamber in this proceeding . After the commencement of the trial , the Trial Chamber , on its own motion , or at the request of the Prosecutor or the defence , may rule on issues that arise during the course of the trial . Rule 135 Medical examination of the accused The Trial Chamber may , for the purpose of discharging its obligations under article 64 , paragraph 8 ( a ) , or for any other reasons , or at the request of a party , order a medical , psychiatric or psychological examination of the accused , under the conditions set forth in rule 113 . The Trial Chamber shall place its reasons for any such order on the record . The Trial Chamber shall appoint one or more experts from the list of experts approved by the Registrar , or an expert approved by the Trial Chamber at the request of a party . Where the Trial Chamber is satisfied that the accused is unfit to stand trial , it shall order that the trial be adjourned . The Trial Chamber may , on its own motion or at the request of the prosecution or the defence , review the case of the accused . In any event , the case shall be reviewed every 120 days unless there are reasons to do otherwise . If necessary , the Trial Chamber may order further examinations of the accused . When the Trial Chamber is satisfied that the accused has become fit to stand trial , it shall proceed in accordance with rule 132 . Rule 136 Joint and separate trials Persons accused jointly shall be tried together unless the Trial Chamber , on its own motion or at the request of the Prosecutor or the defence , orders that separate trials are necessary , in order to avoid serious prejudice to the accused , to protect the interests of justice or because a person jointly accused has made an admission of guilt and can be proceeded against in accordance with article 65 , paragraph 2 . In joint trials , each accused shall be accorded the same rights as if such accused were being tried separately . Rule 137 Record of the trial proceedings In accordance with article 64 , paragraph 10 , the Registrar shall take measures to make , and preserve , a full and accurate record of all proceedings , including transcripts , audio - and video-recordings and other means of capturing sound or image . A Trial Chamber may order the disclosure of all or part of the record of closed proceedings when the reasons for ordering its non-disclosure no longer exist . The Trial Chamber may authorize persons other than the Registrar to take photographs , audio - and video-recordings and other means of capturing the sound or image of the trial . Rule 138 Custody of evidence The Registrar shall retain and preserve , as necessary , all the evidence and other materials offered during the hearing , subject to any order of the Trial Chamber . Rule 139 Decision on admission of guilt After having proceeded in accordance with article 65 , paragraph 1 , the Trial Chamber , in order to decide whether to proceed in accordance with article 65 , paragraph 4 , may invite the views of the Prosecutor and the defence . The Trial Chamber shall then make its decision on the admission of guilt and shall give reasons for this decision , which shall be placed on the record . Rule 140 Directions for the conduct of the proceedings and testimony If the Presiding Judge does not give directions under article 64 , paragraph 8 , the Prosecutor and the defence shall agree on the order and manner in which the evidence shall be submitted to the Trial Chamber . If no agreement can be reached , the Presiding Judge shall issue directions . In all cases , subject to article 64 , paragraphs 8 ( b ) and 9 , article 69 , paragraph 4 , and rule 88 , sub-rule 5 , a witness may be questioned as follows : ( a ) A party that submits evidence in accordance with article 69 , paragraph 3 , by way of a witness , has the right to question that witness ; ( b ) The prosecution and the defence have the right to question that witness about relevant matters related to the witness's testimony and its reliability , the credibility of the witness and other relevant matters ; ( c ) The Trial Chamber has the right to question a witness before or after a witness is questioned by a participant referred to in sub-rules 2 ( a ) or ( b ) ; ( d ) The defence shall have the right to be the last to examine a witness . Unless otherwise ordered by the Trial Chamber , a witness other than an expert , or an investigator if he or she has not yet testified , shall not be present when the testimony of another witness is given . However , a witness who has heard the testimony of another witness shall not for that reason alone be disqualified from testifying . When a witness testifies after hearing the testimony of others , this fact shall be noted in the record and considered by the Trial Chamber when evaluating the evidence . Rule 141 Closure of evidence and closing statements The Presiding Judge shall declare when the submission of evidence is closed . The Presiding Judge shall invite the Prosecutor and the defence to make their closing statements . The defence shall always have the opportunity to speak last . Rule 142 Deliberations After the closing statements , the Trial Chamber shall retire to deliberate , in camera . The Trial Chamber shall inform all those who participated in the proceedings of the date on which the Trial Chamber will pronounce its decision . The pronouncement shall be made within a reasonable period of time after the Trial Chamber has retired to deliberate . When there is more than one charge , the Trial Chamber shall decide separately on each charge . When there is more than one accused , the Trial Chamber shall decide separately on the charges against each accused . Rule 143 Additional hearings on matters related to sentence or reparations Pursuant to article 76 , paragraphs 2 and 3 , for the purpose of holding a further hearing on matters related to sentence and , if applicable , reparations , the Presiding Judge shall set the date of the further hearing . This hearing can be postponed , in exceptional circumstances , by the Trial Chamber , on its own motion or at the request of the Prosecutor , the defence or the legal representatives of the victims participating in the proceedings pursuant to rules 89 to 91 and , in respect of reparations hearings , those victims who have made a request under rule 94 . Rule 144 Delivery of the decisions of the Trial Chamber Decisions of the Trial Chamber concerning admissibility of a case , the jurisdiction of the Court , criminal responsibility of the accused , sentence and reparations shall be pronounced in public and , wherever possible , in the presence of the accused , the Prosecutor , the victims or the legal representatives of the victims participating in the proceedings pursuant to rules 89 to 91 , and the representatives of the States which have participated in the proceedings . Copies of all the above-mentioned decisions shall be provided as soon as possible to : ( a ) All those who participated in the proceedings , in a working language of the Court ; ( b ) The accused , in a language he or she fully understands or speaks , if necessary to meet the requirements of fairness under article 67 , paragraph 1 ( f ) . Chapter 7 Penalties Rule 145 Determination of sentence In its determination of the sentence pursuant to article 78 , paragraph 1 , the Court shall : ( a ) Bear in mind that the totality of any sentence of imprisonment and fine , as the case may be , imposed under article 77 must reflect the culpability of the convicted person ; ( b ) Balance all the relevant factors , including any mitigating and aggravating factors and consider the circumstances both of the convicted person and of the crime ; ( c ) In addition to the factors mentioned in article 78 , paragraph 1 , give consideration , inter alia , to the extent of the damage caused , in particular the harm caused to the victims and their families , the nature of the unlawful behaviour and the means employed to execute the crime ; the degree of participation of the convicted person ; the degree of intent ; the circumstances of manner , time and location ; and the age , education , social and economic condition of the convicted person . In addition to the factors mentioned above , the Court shall take into account , as appropriate : ( a ) Mitigating circumstances such as : ( i ) The circumstances falling short of constituting grounds for exclusion of criminal responsibility , such as substantially diminished mental capacity or duress ; ( ii ) The convicted person's conduct after the act , including any efforts by the person to compensate the victims and any cooperation with the Court ; ( b ) As aggravating circumstances : ( i ) Any relevant prior criminal convictions for crimes under the jurisdiction of the Court or of a similar nature ; ( ii ) Abuse of power or official capacity ; ( iii ) Commission of the crime where the victim is particularly defenceless ; ( iv ) Commission of the crime with particular cruelty or where there were multiple victims ; ( v ) Commission of the crime for any motive involving discrimination on any of the grounds referred to in article 21 , paragraph 3 ; ( vi ) Other circumstances which , although not enumerated above , by virtue of their nature are similar to those mentioned . Life imprisonment may be imposed when justified by the extreme gravity of the crime and the individual circumstances of the convicted person , as evidenced by the existence of one or more aggravating circumstances . Rule 146 Imposition of fines under article 77 In determining whether to order a fine under article 77 , paragraph 2 ( a ) , and in fixing the amount of the fine , the Court shall determine whether imprisonment is a sufficient penalty . The Court shall give due consideration to the financial capacity of the convicted person , including any orders for forfeiture in accordance with article 77 , paragraph 2 ( b ) , and , as appropriate , any orders for reparation in accordance with article 75 . The Court shall take into account , in addition to the factors referred to in rule 145 , whether and to what degree the crime was motivated by personal financial gain . A fine imposed under article 77 , paragraph 2 ( a ) , shall be set at an appropriate level . To this end , the Court shall , in addition to the factors referred to above , in particular take into consideration the damage and injuries caused as well as the proportionate gains derived from the crime by the perpetrator . Under no circumstances may the total amount exceed 75 per cent of the value of the convicted person's identifiable assets , liquid or realizable , and property , after deduction of an appropriate amount that would satisfy the financial needs of the convicted person and his or her dependants . In imposing a fine , the Court shall allow the convicted person a reasonable period in which to pay the fine . The Court may provide for payment of a lump sum or by way of instalments during that period . In imposing a fine , the Court may , as an option , calculate it according to a system of daily fines . In such cases , the minimum duration shall be 30 days and the maximum duration five years . The Court shall decide the total amount in accordance with sub-rules 1 and 2 . It shall determine the amount of daily payment in the light of the individual circumstances of the convicted person , including the financial needs of his or her dependants . If the convicted person does not pay the fine imposed in accordance with the conditions set above , appropriate measures may be taken by the Court pursuant to rules 217 to 222 and in accordance with article 109 . Where , in cases of continued wilful non-payment , the Presidency , on its own motion or at the request of the Prosecutor , is satisfied that all available enforcement measures have been exhausted , it may as a last resort extend the term of imprisonment for a period not to exceed a quarter of such term or five years , whichever is less . In the determination of such period of extension , the Presidency shall take into account the amount of the fine , imposed and paid . Any such extension shall not apply in the case of life imprisonment . The extension may not lead to a total period of imprisonment in excess of 30 years . In order to determine whether to order an extension and the period involved , the Presidency shall sit in camera for the purpose of obtaining the views of the sentenced person and the Prosecutor . The sentenced person shall have the right to be assisted by counsel . In imposing a fine , the Court shall warn the convicted person that failure to pay the fine in accordance with the conditions set out above may result in an extension of the period of imprisonment as described in this rule . Rule 147 Orders of forfeiture In accordance with article 76 , paragraphs 2 and 3 , and rules 63 , sub-rule 1 , and 143 , at any hearing to consider an order of forfeiture , Chamber shall hear evidence as to the identification and location of specific proceeds , property or assets which have been derived directly or indirectly from the crime . If before or during the hearing , a Chamber becomes aware of any bona fide third party who appears to have an interest in relevant proceeds , property or assets , it shall give notice to that third party . The Prosecutor , the convicted person and any bona fide third party with an interest in the relevant proceeds , property or assets may submit evidence relevant to the issue . After considering any evidence submitted , a Chamber may issue an order of forfeiture in relation to specific proceeds , property or assets if it is satisfied that these have been derived directly or indirectly from the crime . Rule 148 Orders to transfer fines or forfeitures to the Trust Fund Before making an order pursuant to article 79 , paragraph 2 , a Chamber may request the representatives of the Fund to submit written or oral observations to it . Chapter 8 Appeal and revision Section I General provisions Rule 149 Rules governing proceedings in the Appeals Chamber Parts 5 and 6 and rules governing proceedings and the submission of evidence in the Pre-Trial and Trial Chambers shall apply mutatis mutandis to proceedings in the Appeals Chamber . Section II Appeals against convictions , acquittals , sentences and reparation orders Rule 150 Appeal Subject to sub-rule 2 , an appeal against a decision of conviction or acquittal under article 74 , a sentence under article 76 or a reparation order under article 75 may be filed not later than 30 days from the date on which the party filing the appeal is notified of the decision , the sentence or the reparation order . The Appeals Chamber may extend the time limit set out in sub-rule 1 , for good cause , upon the application of the party seeking to file the appeal . The appeal shall be filed with the Registrar . If an appeal is not filed as set out in sub-rules 1 to 3 , the decision , the sentence or the reparation order of the Trial Chamber shall become final . Rule 151 Procedure for the appeal Upon the filing of an appeal under rule 150 , the Registrar shall transmit the trial record to the Appeals Chamber . The Registrar shall notify all parties who participated in the proceedings before the Trial Chamber that an appeal has been filed . Rule 152 Discontinuance of the appeal Any party who has filed an appeal may discontinue the appeal at any time before judgement has been delivered . In such case , the party shall file with the Registrar a written notice of discontinuance of appeal . The Registrar shall inform the other parties that such a notice has been filed . If the Prosecutor has filed an appeal on behalf of a convicted person in accordance with article 81 , paragraph 1 ( b ) , before filing any notice of discontinuance , the Prosecutor shall inform the convicted person that he or she intends to discontinue the appeal in order to give him or her the opportunity to continue the appeal proceedings . Rule 153 Judgement on appeals against reparation orders The Appeals Chamber may confirm , reverse or amend a reparation order made under article 75 . The judgement of the Appeals Chamber shall be delivered in accordance with article 83 , paragraphs 4 and 5 . Section III Appeals against other decisions Rule 154 Appeals that do not require the leave of the Court An appeal may be filed under article 81 , paragraph 3 ( c ) ( ii ) , or article 82 , paragraph 1 ( a ) or ( b ) , not later than five days from the date upon which the party filing the appeal is notified of the decision . An appeal may be filed under article 82 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , not later than two days from the date upon which the party filing the appeal is notified of the decision . Rule 150 , sub-rules 3 and 4 , shall apply to appeals filed under sub-rules 1 and 2 of this rule . Rule 155 Appeals that require leave of the Court When a party wishes to appeal a decision under article 82 , paragraph 1 ( d ) , or article 82 , paragraph 2 , that party shall , within five days of being notified of that decision , make a written application to the Chamber that gave the decision , setting out the reasons for the request for leave to appeal . The Chamber shall render a decision and shall notify all parties who participated in the proceedings that gave rise to the decision referred to in sub-rule 1 . Rule 156 Procedure for the appeal As soon as an appeal has been filed under rule 154 or as soon as leave to appeal has been granted under rule 155 , the Registrar shall transmit to the Appeals Chamber the record of the proceedings of the Chamber that made the decision that is the subject of the appeal . The Registrar shall give notice of the appeal to all parties who participated in the proceedings before the Chamber that gave the decision that is the subject of the appeal , unless they have already been notified by the Chamber under rule 155 , sub-rule 2 . The appeal proceedings shall be in writing unless the Appeals Chamber decides to convene a hearing . The appeal shall be heard as expeditiously as possible . When filing the appeal , the party appealing may request that the appeal have suspensive effect in accordance with article 82 , paragraph 3 . Rule 157 Discontinuance of the appeal Any party who has filed an appeal under rule 154 or who has obtained the leave of a Chamber to appeal a decision under rule 155 may discontinue the appeal at any time before judgement has been delivered . In such case , the party shall file with the Registrar a written notice of discontinuance of appeal . The Registrar shall inform the other parties that such a notice has been filed . Rule 158 Judgement on the appeal An Appeals Chamber which considers an appeal referred to in this section may confirm , reverse or amend the decision appealed . The judgement of the Appeals Chamber shall be delivered in accordance with article 83 , paragraph 4 . Section IV Revision of conviction or sentence Rule 159 Application for revision An application for revision provided for in article 84 , paragraph 1 , shall be in writing and shall set out the grounds on which the revision is sought . It shall as far as possible be accompanied by supporting material . The determination on whether the application is meritorious shall be taken by a majority of the judges of the Appeals Chamber and shall be supported by reasons in writing . Notification of the decision shall be sent to the applicant and , as far as possible , to all the parties who participated in the proceedings related to the initial decision . Rule 160 Transfer for the purpose of revision For the conduct of the hearing provided for in rule 161 , the relevant Chamber shall issue its order sufficiently in advance to enable the transfer of the sentenced person to the seat of the Court , as appropriate . The determination of the Court shall be communicated without delay to the State of enforcement . The provisions of rule 206 , sub-rule 3 , shall be applicable . Rule 161 Determination on revision On a date which it shall determine and shall communicate to the applicant and to all those having received notification under rule 159 , sub-rule 3 , the relevant Chamber shall hold a hearing to determine whether the conviction or sentence should be revised . For the conduct of the hearing , the relevant Chamber shall exercise , mutatis mutandis , all the powers of the Trial Chamber pursuant to Part 6 and the rules governing proceedings and the submission of evidence in the Pre-Trial and Trial Chambers . The determination on revision shall be governed by the applicable provisions of article 83 , paragraph 4 . Chapter 9 Offences and misconduct against the Court Section I Offences against the administration of justice under article 70 Rule 162 Exercise of jurisdiction Before deciding whether to exercise jurisdiction , the Court may consult with States Parties that may have jurisdiction over the offence . In making a decision whether or not to exercise jurisdiction , the Court may consider , in particular : ( a ) The availability and effectiveness of prosecution in a State Party ; ( b ) The seriousness of an offence ; ( c ) The possible joinder of charges under article 70 with charges under articles 5 to 8 ; ( d ) The need to expedite proceedings ; ( e ) Links with an ongoing investigation or a trial before the Court ; and ( f ) Evidentiary considerations . The Court shall give favourable consideration to a request from the host State for a waiver of the power of the Court to exercise jurisdiction in cases where the host State considers such a waiver to be of particular importance . If the Court decides not to exercise its jurisdiction , it may request a State Party to exercise jurisdiction pursuant to article 70 , paragraph 4 . Rule 163 Application of the Statute and the Rules Unless otherwise provided in sub-rules 2 and 3 , rule 162 and rules 164 to 169 , the Statute and the Rules shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Court's investigation , prosecution and punishment of offences defined in article 70 . The provisions of Part 2 , and any rules thereunder , shall not apply , with the exception of article 21 . The provisions of Part 10 , and any rules thereunder , shall not apply , with the exception of articles 103 , 107 , 109 and 111 . Rule 164 Periods of limitation If the Court exercises jurisdiction in accordance with rule 162 , it shall apply the periods of limitation set forth in this rule . Offences defined in article 70 shall be subject to a period of limitation of five years from the date on which the offence was committed , provided that during this period no investigation or prosecution has been initiated . The period of limitation shall be interrupted if an investigation or prosecution has been initiated during this period , either before the Court or by a State Party with jurisdiction over the case pursuant to article 70 , paragraph 4 ( a ) . Enforcement of sanctions imposed with respect to offences defined in article 70 shall be subject to a period of limitation of 10 years from the date on which the sanction has become final . The period of limitation shall be interrupted with the detention of the convicted person or while the person concerned is outside the territory of the States Parties . Rule 165 Investigation , prosecution and trial The Prosecutor may initiate and conduct investigations with respect to the offences defined in article 70 on his or her own initiative , on the basis of information communicated by a Chamber or any reliable source . Articles 53 and 59 , and any rules thereunder , shall not apply . For purposes of article 61 , the Pre-Trial Chamber may make any of the determinations set forth in that article on the basis of written submissions , without a hearing , unless the interests of justice otherwise require . A Trial Chamber may , as appropriate and taking into account the rights of the defence , direct that there be joinder of charges under article 70 with charges under articles 5 to 8 . Rule 166 Sanctions under article 70 If the Court imposes sanctions with respect to article 70 , this rule shall apply . Article 77 , and any rules thereunder , shall not apply , with the exception of an order of forfeiture under article 77 , paragraph 2 ( b ) , which may be ordered in addition to imprisonment or a fine or both . Each offence may be separately fined and those fines may be cumulative . Under no circumstances may the total amount exceed 50 per cent of the value of the convicted person's identifiable assets , liquid or realizable , and property , after deduction of an appropriate amount that would satisfy the financial needs of the convicted person and his or her dependants . In imposing a fine the Court shall allow the convicted person a reasonable period in which to pay the fine . The Court may provide for payment of a lump sum or by way of instalments during that period . If the convicted person does not pay a fine imposed in accordance with the conditions set forth in sub-rule 4 , appropriate measures may be taken by the Court pursuant to rules 217 to 222 and in accordance with article 109 . Where , in cases of continued wilful non-payment , the Court , on its own motion or at the request of the Prosecutor , is satisfied that all available enforcement measures have been exhausted , it may as a last resort impose a term of imprisonment in accordance with article 70 , paragraph 3 . In the determination of such term of imprisonment , the Court shall take into account the amount of fine paid . Rule 167 International cooperation and judicial assistance With regard to offences under article 70 , the Court may request a State to provide any form of international cooperation or judicial assistance corresponding to those forms set forth in Part 9 . In any such request , the Court shall indicate that the basis for the request is an investigation or prosecution of offences under article 70 . The conditions for providing international cooperation or judicial assistance to the Court with respect to offences under article 70 shall be those set forth in article 70 , paragraph 2 . Rule 168 Ne bis in idem In respect of offences under article 70 , no person shall be tried before the Court with respect to conduct which formed the basis of an offence for which the person has already been convicted or acquitted by the Court or another court . Rule 169 Immediate arrest In the case of an alleged offence under article 70 committed in the presence of a Chamber , the Prosecutor may orally request that Chamber to order the immediate arrest of the person concerned . Section II Misconduct before the Court under article 71 Rule 170 Disruption of proceedings Having regard to article 63 , paragraph 2 , the Presiding Judge of the Chamber dealing with the matter may , after giving a warning : ( a ) Order a person disrupting the proceedings of the Court to leave or be removed from the courtroom ; or , ( b ) In case of repeated misconduct , order the interdiction of that person from attending the proceedings . Rule 171 Refusal to comply with a direction by the Court When the misconduct consists of deliberate refusal to comply with an oral or written direction by the Court , not covered by rule 170 , and that direction is accompanied by a warning of sanctions in case of breach , the Presiding Judge of the Chamber dealing with the matter may order the interdiction of that person from the proceedings for a period not exceeding 30 days or , if the misconduct is of a more serious nature , impose a fine . If the person committing misconduct as described in sub-rule 1 is an official of the Court , or a defence counsel , or a legal representative of victims , the Presiding Judge of the Chamber dealing with the matter may also order the interdiction of that person from exercising his or her functions before the Court for a period not exceeding 30 days . If the Presiding Judge in cases under sub-rules 1 and 2 considers that a longer period of interdiction is appropriate , the Presiding Judge shall refer the matter to the Presidency , which may hold a hearing to determine whether to order a longer or permanent period of interdiction . A fine imposed under sub-rule 1 shall not exceed 2,000 euros , or the equivalent amount in any currency , provided that in cases of continuing misconduct , a new fine may be imposed on each day that the misconduct continues , and such fines shall be cumulative . The person concerned shall be given an opportunity to be heard before a sanction for misconduct , as described in this rule , is imposed . Rule 172 Conduct covered by both articles 70 and 71 If conduct covered by article 71 also constitutes one of the offences defined in article 70 , the Court shall proceed in accordance with article 70 and rules 162 to 169 . Chapter 10 Compensation to an arrested or convicted person Rule 173 Request for compensation Anyone seeking compensation on any of the grounds indicated in article 85 shall submit a request , in writing , to the Presidency , which shall designate a Chamber composed of three judges to consider the request . These judges shall not have participated in any earlier judgement of the Court regarding the person making the request . The request for compensation shall be submitted not later than six months from the date the person making the request was notified of the decision of the Court concerning : ( a ) The unlawfulness of the arrest or detention under article 85 , paragraph 1 ; ( b ) The reversal of the conviction under article 85 , paragraph 2 ; ( c ) The existence of a grave and manifest miscarriage of justice under article 85 , paragraph 3 . The request shall contain the grounds and the amount of compensation requested . The person requesting compensation shall be entitled to legal assistance . Rule 174 Procedure for seeking compensation A request for compensation and any other written observation by the person filing the request shall be transmitted to the Prosecutor , who shall have an opportunity to respond in writing . Any observations by the Prosecutor shall be notified to the person filing the request . The Chamber designated under rule 173 , sub-rule 1 , may either hold a hearing or determine the matter on the basis of the request and any written observations by the Prosecutor and the person filing the request . A hearing shall be held if the Prosecutor or the person seeking compensation so requests . The decision shall be taken by the majority of the judges . The decision shall be notified to the Prosecutor and to the person filing the request . Rule 175 Amount of compensation In establishing the amount of any compensation in conformity with article 85 , paragraph 3 , the Chamber designated under rule 173 , sub-rule 1 , shall take into consideration the consequences of the grave and manifest miscarriage of justice on the personal , family , social and professional situation of the person filing the request . Chapter 11 International cooperation and judicial assistance Section I Requests for cooperation under article 87 Rule 176 Organs of the Court responsible for the transmission and receipt of any communications relating to international cooperation and judicial assistance Upon and subsequent to the establishment of the Court , the Registrar shall obtain from the Secretary-General of the United Nations any communication made by States pursuant to article 87 , paragraphs 1 ( a ) and 2 . The Registrar shall transmit the requests for cooperation made by the Chambers and shall receive the responses , information and documents from requested States . The Office of the Prosecutor shall transmit the requests for cooperation made by the Prosecutor and shall receive the responses , information and documents from requested States . The Registrar shall be the recipient of any communication from States concerning subsequent changes in the designation of the national channels charged with receiving requests for cooperation , as well as of any change in the language in which requests for cooperation should be made , and shall , upon request , make such information available to States Parties as may be appropriate . The provisions of sub-rule 2 are applicable mutatis mutandis where the Court requests information , documents or other forms of cooperation and assistance from an intergovernmental organization . The Registrar shall transmit any communications referred to in sub-rules 1 and 3 and rule 177 , sub-rule 2 , as appropriate , to the Presidency or the Office of the Prosecutor , or both . Rule 177 Channels of communication Communications concerning the national authority charged with receiving requests for cooperation made upon ratification , acceptance , approval or accession shall provide all relevant information about such authorities . When an intergovernmental organization is asked to assist the Court under article 87 , paragraph 6 , the Registrar shall , when necessary , ascertain its designated channel of communication and obtain all relevant information relating thereto . Rule 178 Language chosen by States Parties under article 87 , paragraph 2 When a requested State Party has more than one official language , it may indicate upon ratification , acceptance , approval or accession that requests for cooperation and any supporting documents can be drafted in any one of its official languages . When the requested State Party has not chosen a language for communication with the Court upon ratification , acceptance , accession or approval , the request for cooperation shall either be in or be accompanied by a translation into one of the working languages of the Court pursuant to article 87 , paragraph 2 . Rule 179 Language of requests directed to States not party to the Statute When a State not party to the Statute has agreed to provide assistance to the Court under article 87 , paragraph 5 , and has not made a choice of language for such requests , the requests for cooperation shall either be in or be accompanied by a translation into one of the working languages of the Court . Rule 180 Changes in the channels of communication or the languages of requests for cooperation Changes concerning the channel of communication or the language a State has chosen under article 87 , paragraph 2 , shall be communicated in writing to the Registrar at the earliest opportunity . Such changes shall take effect in respect of requests for cooperation made by the Court at a time agreed between the Court and the State or , in the absence of such an agreement , 45 days after the Court has received the communication and , in all cases , without prejudice to current requests or requests in progress . Section II Surrender , transit and competing requests under articles 89 and 90 Rule 181 Challenge to admissibility of a case before a national court When a situation described in article 89 , paragraph 2 , arises , and without prejudice to the provisions of article 19 and of rules 58 to 62 on procedures applicable to challenges to the jurisdiction of the Court or the admissibility of a case , the Chamber dealing with the case , if the admissibility ruling is still pending , shall take steps to obtain from the requested State all the relevant information about the ne bis in idem challenge brought by the person . Rule 182 Request for transit under article 89 , paragraph 3 ( e ) In situations described in article 89 , paragraph 3 ( e ) , the Court may transmit the request for transit by any medium capable of delivering a written record . When the time limit provided for in article 89 , paragraph 3 ( e ) , has expired and the person concerned has been released , such a release is without prejudice to a subsequent arrest of the person in accordance with the provisions of article 89 or article 92 . Rule 183 Possible temporary surrender Following the consultations referred to in article 89 , paragraph 4 , the requested State may temporarily surrender the person sought in accordance with conditions determined between the requested State and the Court . In such case the person shall be kept in custody during his or her presence before the Court and shall be transferred to the requested State once his or her presence before the Court is no longer required , at the latest when the proceedings have been completed . Rule 184 Arrangements for surrender The requested State shall immediately inform the Registrar when the person sought by the Court is available for surrender . The person shall be surrendered to the Court by the date and in the manner agreed upon between the authorities of the requested State and the Registrar . If circumstances prevent the surrender of the person by the date agreed , the authorities of the requested State and the Registrar shall agree upon a new date and manner by which the person shall be surrendered . The Registrar shall maintain contact with the authorities of the host State in relation to the arrangements for the surrender of the person to the Court . Rule 185 Release of a person from the custody of the Court other than upon completion of sentence Subject to sub-rule 2 , where a person surrendered to the Court is released from the custody of the Court because the Court does not have jurisdiction , the case is inadmissible under article 17 , paragraph 1 ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) , the charges have not been confirmed under article 61 , the person has been acquitted at trial or on appeal , or for any other reason , the Court shall , as soon as possible , make such arrangements as it considers appropriate for the transfer of the person , taking into account the views of the person , to a State which is obliged to receive him or her , to another State which agrees to receive him or her , or to a State which has requested his or her extradition with the consent of the original surrendering State . In this case , the host State shall facilitate the transfer in accordance with the agreement referred to in article 3 , paragraph 2 , and the related arrangements . Where the Court has determined that the case is inadmissible under article 17 , paragraph 1 ( a ) , the Court shall make arrangements , as appropriate , for the transfer of the person to a State whose investigation or prosecution has formed the basis of the successful challenge to admissibility , unless the State that originally surrendered the person requests his or her return . Rule 186 Competing requests in the context of a challenge to the admissibility of the case In situations described in article 90 , paragraph 8 , the requested State shall provide the notification of its decision to the Prosecutor in order to enable him or her to act in accordance with article 19 , paragraph 10 . Section III Documents for arrest and surrender under articles 91 and 92 Rule 187 Translation of documents accompanying request for surrender For the purposes of article 67 , paragraph 1 ( a ) , and in accordance with rule 117 , sub-rule 1 , the request under article 91 shall be accompanied , as appropriate , by a translation of the warrant of arrest or of the judgement of conviction and by a translation of the text of any relevant provisions of the Statute , in a language that the person fully understands and speaks . Rule 188 Time limit for submission of documents after provisional arrest For the purposes of article 92 , paragraph 3 , the time limit for receipt by the requested State of the request for surrender and the documents supporting the request shall be 60 days from the date of the provisional arrest . Rule 189 Transmission of documents supporting the request When a person has consented to surrender in accordance with the provisions of article 92 , paragraph 3 , and the requested State proceeds to surrender the person to the Court , the Court shall not be required to provide the documents described in article 91 unless the requested State indicates otherwise . Section IV Cooperation under article 93 Rule 190 Instruction on self-incrimination accompanying request for witness When making a request under article 93 , paragraph 1 ( e ) , with respect to a witness , the Court shall annex an instruction , concerning rule 74 relating to self-incrimination , to be provided to the witness in question , in a language that the person fully understands and speaks . Rule 191 Assurance provided by the Court under article 93 , paragraph 2 The Chamber dealing with the case , on its own motion or at the request of the Prosecutor , defence or witness or expert concerned , may decide , after taking into account the views of the Prosecutor and the witness or expert concerned , to provide the assurance described in article 93 , paragraph 2 . Rule 192 Transfer of a person in custody Transfer of a person in custody to the Court in accordance with article 93 , paragraph 7 , shall be arranged by the national authorities concerned in liaison with the Registrar and the authorities of the host State . The Registrar shall ensure the proper conduct of the transfer , including the supervision of the person while in the custody of the Court . The person in custody before the Court shall have the right to raise matters concerning the conditions of his or her detention with the relevant Chamber . In accordance with article 93 , paragraph 7 ( b ) , when the purposes of the transfer have been fulfilled , the Registrar shall arrange for the return of the person in custody to the requested State . Rule 193 Temporary transfer of the person from the State of enforcement The Chamber that is considering the case may order the temporary transfer from the State of enforcement to the seat of the Court of any person sentenced by the Court whose testimony or other assistance is necessary to the Court . The provisions of article 93 , paragraph 7 , shall not apply . The Registrar shall ensure the proper conduct of the transfer , in liaison with the authorities of the State of enforcement and the authorities of the host State . When the purposes of the transfer have been fulfilled , the Court shall return the sentenced person to the State of enforcement . The person shall be kept in custody during his or her presence before the Court . The entire period of detention spent at the seat of the Court shall be deducted from the sentence remaining to be served . Rule 194 Cooperation requested from the Court In accordance with article 93 , paragraph 10 , and consistent with article 96 , mutatis mutandis , a State may transmit to the Court a request for cooperation or assistance to the Court , either in or accompanied by a translation into one of the working languages of the Court . Requests described in sub-rule 1 are to be sent to the Registrar , which shall transmit them , as appropriate , either to the Prosecutor or to the Chamber concerned . If protective measures within the meaning of article 68 have been adopted , the Prosecutor or Chamber , as appropriate , shall consider the views of the Chamber which ordered the measures as well as those of the relevant victim or witness , before deciding on the request . If the request relates to documents or evidence as described in article 93 , paragraph 10 ( b ) ( ii ) , the Prosecutor or Chamber , as appropriate , shall obtain the written consent of the relevant State before proceeding with the request . When the Court decides to grant the request for cooperation or assistance from a State , the request shall be executed , insofar as possible , following any procedure outlined therein by the requesting State and permitting persons specified in the request to be present . Section V Cooperation under article 98 Rule 195 Provision of information When a requested State notifies the Court that a request for surrender or assistance raises a problem of execution in respect of article 98 , the requested State shall provide any information relevant to assist the Court in the application of article 98 . Any concerned third State or sending State may provide additional information to assist the Court . The Court may not proceed with a request for the surrender of a person without the consent of a sending State if , under article 98 , paragraph 2 , such a request would be inconsistent with obligations under an international agreement pursuant to which the consent of a sending State is required prior to the surrender of a person of that State to the Court . Section VI Rule of speciality under article 101 Rule 196 Provision of views on article 101 , paragraph 1 A person surrendered to the Court may provide views on a perceived violation of the provisions of article 101 , paragraph 1 . Rule 197 Extension of the surrender When the Court has requested a waiver of the requirements of article 101 , paragraph 1 , the requested State may ask the Court to obtain and provide the views of the person surrendered to the Court . Chapter 12 Enforcement Section I Role of States in enforcement of sentences of imprisonment and change in designation of State of enforcement under articles 103 and 104 Rule 198 Communications between the Court and States Unless the context otherwise requires , article 87 and rules 176 to 180 shall apply , as appropriate , to communications between the Court and a State on matters relating to enforcement of sentences . Rule 199 Organ responsible under Part 10 Unless provided otherwise in the Rules , the functions of the Court under Part 10 shall be exercised by the Presidency . Rule 200 List of States of enforcement A list of States that have indicated their willingness to accept sentenced persons shall be established and maintained by the Registrar . The Presidency shall not include a State on the list provided for in article 103 , paragraph 1 ( a ) , if it does not agree with the conditions that such a State attaches to its acceptance . The Presidency may request any additional information from that State prior to taking a decision . A State that has attached conditions of acceptance may at any time withdraw such conditions . Any amendments or additions to such conditions shall be subject to confirmation by the Presidency . A State may at any time inform the Registrar of its withdrawal from the list . Such withdrawal shall not affect the enforcement of the sentences in respect of persons that the State has already accepted . The Court may enter bilateral arrangements with States with a view to establishing a framework for the acceptance of prisoners sentenced by the Court . Such arrangements shall be consistent with the Statute . Rule 201 Principles of equitable distribution Principles of equitable distribution for purposes of article 103 , paragraph 3 , shall include : ( a ) The principle of equitable geographical distribution ; ( b ) The need to afford each State on the list an opportunity to receive sentenced persons ; ( c ) The number of sentenced persons already received by that State and other States of enforcement ; ( d ) Any other relevant factors . Rule 202 Timing of delivery of the sentenced person to the State of enforcement The delivery of a sentenced person from the Court to the designated State of enforcement shall not take place unless the decision on the conviction and the decision on the sentence have become final . Rule 203 Views of the sentenced person The Presidency shall give notice in writing to the sentenced person that it is addressing the designation of a State of enforcement . The sentenced person shall , within such time limit as the Presidency shall prescribe , submit in writing his or her views on the question to the Presidency . The Presidency may allow the sentenced person to make oral presentations . The Presidency shall allow the sentenced person : ( a ) To be assisted , as appropriate , by a competent interpreter and to benefit from any translation necessary for the presentation of his or her views ; ( b ) To be granted adequate time and facilities necessary to prepare for the presentation of his or her views . Rule 204 Information relating to designation When the Presidency notifies the designated State of its decision , it shall also transmit the following information and documents : ( a ) The name , nationality , date and place of birth of the sentenced person ; ( b ) A copy of the final judgement of conviction and of the sentence imposed ; ( c ) The length and commencement date of the sentence and the time remaining to be served ; ( d ) After having heard the views of the sentenced person , any necessary information concerning the state of his or her health , including any medical treatment that he or she is receiving . Rule 205 Rejection of designation in a particular case Where a State in a particular case rejects the designation by the Presidency , the Presidency may designate another State . Rule 206 Delivery of the sentenced person to the State of enforcement The Registrar shall inform the Prosecutor and the sentenced person of the State designated to enforce the sentence . The sentenced person shall be delivered to the State of enforcement as soon as possible after the designated State of enforcement accepts . The Registrar shall ensure the proper conduct of the delivery of the person in consultation with the authorities of the State of enforcement and the host State . Rule 207 Transit No authorization is required if the sentenced person is transported by air and no landing is scheduled on the territory of the transit State . If an unscheduled landing occurs on the territory of the transit State , that State shall , to the extent possible under the procedure of national law , detain the sentenced person in custody until a request for transit as provided in sub-rule 2 or a request under article 89 , paragraph 1 , or article 92 is received . To the extent possible under the procedure of national law , a State Party shall authorize the transit of a sentenced person through its territory and the provisions of article 89 , paragraph 3 ( b ) and ( c ) , and articles 105 and 108 and any rules relating thereto shall , as appropriate , apply . A copy of the final judgement of conviction and of the sentence imposed shall be attached to such request for transit . Rule 208 Costs The ordinary costs for the enforcement of the sentence in the territory of the State of enforcement shall be borne by that State . Other costs , including those for the transport of the sentenced person and those referred to in article 100 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , ( d ) and ( e ) , shall be borne by the Court . Rule 209 Change in designation of State of enforcement The Presidency , acting on its own motion or at the request of the sentenced person or the Prosecutor , may at any time act in accordance with article 104 , paragraph 1 . The request of the sentenced person or of the Prosecutor shall be made in writing and shall set out the grounds upon which the transfer is sought . Rule 210 Procedure for change in the designation of a State of enforcement Before deciding to change the designation of a State of enforcement , the Presidency may : ( a ) Request views from the State of enforcement ; ( b ) Consider written or oral presentations of the sentenced person and the Prosecutor ; ( c ) Consider written or oral expert opinion concerning , inter alia , the sentenced person ; ( d ) Obtain any other relevant information from any reliable sources . The provisions of rule 203 , sub-rule 3 , shall apply , as appropriate . If the Presidency refuses to change the designation of the State of enforcement , it shall , as soon as possible , inform the sentenced person , the Prosecutor and the Registrar of its decision and of the reasons therefor . It shall also inform the State of enforcement . Section II Enforcement , supervision and transfer under articles 105 , 106 and 107 Rule 211 Supervision of enforcement of sentences and conditions of imprisonment In order to supervise the enforcement of sentences of imprisonment , the Presidency : ( a ) Shall , in consultation with the State of enforcement , ensure that in establishing appropriate arrangements for the exercise by any sentenced person of his or her right to communicate with the Court about the conditions of imprisonment , the provisions of article 106 , paragraph 3 , shall be respected ; ( b ) May , when necessary , request any information , report or expert opinion from the State of enforcement or from any reliable sources ; ( c ) May , where appropriate , delegate a judge of the Court or a member of the staff of the Court who will be responsible , after notifying the State of enforcement , for meeting the sentenced person and hearing his or her views , without the presence of national authorities ; ( d ) May , where appropriate , give the State of enforcement an opportunity to comment on the views expressed by the sentenced person under sub-rule 1 ( c ) . When a sentenced person is eligible for a prison programme or benefit available under the domestic law of the State of enforcement which may entail some activity outside the prison facility , the State of enforcement shall communicate that fact to the Presidency , together with any relevant information or observation , to enable the Court to exercise its supervisory function . Rule 212 Information on location of the person for enforcement of fines , forfeitures or reparation measures For the purpose of enforcement of fines and forfeiture measures and of reparation measures ordered by the Court , the Presidency may , at any time or at least 30 days before the scheduled completion of the sentence served by the sentenced person , request the State of enforcement to transmit to it the relevant information concerning the intention of that State to authorize the person to remain in its territory or the location where it intends to transfer the person . Rule 213 Procedure for article 107 , paragraph 3 With respect to article 107 , paragraph 3 , the procedure set out in rules 214 and 215 shall apply , as appropriate . Section III Limitation on the prosecution or punishment of other offences under article 108 Rule 214 Request to prosecute or enforce a sentence for prior conduct For the application of article 108 , when the State of enforcement wishes to prosecute or enforce a sentence against the sentenced person for any conduct engaged in prior to that person's transfer , it shall notify its intention to the Presidency and transmit to it the following documents : ( a ) A statement of the facts of the case and their legal characterization ; ( b ) A copy of any applicable legal provisions , including those concerning the statute of limitation and the applicable penalties ; ( c ) A copy of any sentence , warrant of arrest or other document having the same force , or of any other legal writ which the State intends to enforce ; ( d ) A protocol containing views of the sentenced person obtained after the person has been informed sufficiently about the proceedings . In the event of a request for extradition made by another State , the State of enforcement shall transmit the entire request to the Presidency with a protocol containing the views of the sentenced person obtained after informing the person sufficiently about the extradition request . The Presidency may in all cases request any document or additional information from the State of enforcement or the State requesting extradition . If the person was surrendered to the Court by a State other than the State of enforcement or the State seeking extradition , the Presidency shall consult with the State that surrendered the person and take into account any views expressed by that State . Any information or documents transmitted to the Presidency under sub-rules 1 to 4 shall be transmitted to the Prosecutor , who may comment . The Presidency may decide to conduct a hearing . Rule 215 Decision on request to prosecute or enforce a sentence The Presidency shall make a determination as soon as possible . This determination shall be notified to all those who have participated in the proceedings . If the request submitted under sub-rules 1 or 2 of rule 214 concerns the enforcement of a sentence , the sentenced person may serve that sentence in the State designated by the Court to enforce the sentence pronounced by it or be extradited to a third State only after having served the full sentence pronounced by the Court , subject to the provisions of article 110 . The Presidency may authorize the temporary extradition of the sentenced person to a third State for prosecution only if it has obtained assurances which it deems to be sufficient that the sentenced person will be kept in custody in the third State and transferred back to the State responsible for enforcement of the sentence pronounced by the Court , after the prosecution . Rule 216 Information on enforcement The Presidency shall request the State of enforcement to inform it of any important event concerning the sentenced person , and of any prosecution of that person for events subsequent to his or her transfer . Section IV Enforcement of fines , forfeiture measures and reparation orders Rule 217 Cooperation and measures for enforcement of fines , forfeiture or reparation orders For the enforcement of fines , forfeiture or reparation orders , the Presidency shall , as appropriate , seek cooperation and measures for enforcement in accordance with Part 9 , as well as transmit copies of relevant orders to any State with which the sentenced person appears to have direct connection by reason of either nationality , domicile or habitual residence or by virtue of the location of the sentenced person's assets and property or with which the victim has such connection . The Presidency shall , as appropriate , inform the State of any third-party claims or of the fact that no claim was presented by a person who received notification of any proceedings conducted pursuant to article 75 . Rule 218 Orders for forfeiture and reparations In order to enable States to give effect to an order for forfeiture , the order shall specify : ( a ) The identity of the person against whom the order has been issued ; ( b ) The proceeds , property and assets that have been ordered by the Court to be forfeited ; and ( c ) That if the State Party is unable to give effect to the order for forfeiture in relation to the specified proceeds , property or assets , it shall take measures to recover the value of the same . In the request for cooperation and measures for enforcement , the Court shall also provide available information as to the location of the proceeds , property and assets that are covered by the order for forfeiture . In order to enable States to give effect to an order for reparations , the order shall specify : ( a ) The identity of the person against whom the order has been issued ; ( b ) In respect of reparations of a financial nature , the identity of the victims to whom individual reparations have been granted , and , where the award for reparations shall be deposited with the Trust Fund , the particulars of the Trust Fund for the deposit of the award ; and ( c ) The scope and nature of the reparations ordered by the Court , including , where applicable , the property and assets for which restitution has been ordered . Where the Court awards reparations on an individual basis , a copy of the reparation order shall be transmitted to the victim concerned . Rule 219 Non-modification of orders for reparation The Presidency shall , when transmitting copies of orders for reparations to States Parties under rule 217 , inform them that , in giving effect to an order for reparations , the national authorities shall not modify the reparations specified by the Court , the scope or the extent of any damage , loss or injury determined by the Court or the principles stated in the order , and shall facilitate the enforcement of such order . Rule 220 Non-modification of judgements in which fines were imposed When transmitting copies of judgements in which fines were imposed to States Parties for the purpose of enforcement in accordance with article 109 and rule 217 , the Presidency shall inform them that in enforcing the fines imposed , national authorities shall not modify them . Rule 221 Decision on disposition or allocation of property or assets The Presidency shall , after having consulted , as appropriate , with the Prosecutor , the sentenced person , the victims or their legal representatives , the national authorities of the State of enforcement or any relevant third party , or representatives of the Trust Fund provided for in article 79 , decide on all matters related to the disposition or allocation of property or assets realized through enforcement of an order of the Court . In all cases , when the Presidency decides on the disposition or allocation of property or assets belonging to the sentenced person , it shall give priority to the enforcement of measures concerning reparations to victims . Rule 222 Assistance for service or any other measure The Presidency shall assist the State in the enforcement of fines , forfeiture or reparation orders , as requested , with the service of any relevant notification on the sentenced person or any other relevant persons , or the carrying out of any other measures necessary for the enforcement of the order under the procedure of the national law of the enforcement State . Section V Review concerning reduction of sentence under article 110 Rule 223 Criteria for review concerning reduction of sentence In reviewing the question of reduction of sentence pursuant to article 110 , paragraphs 3 and 5 , the three judges of the Appeals Chamber shall take into account the criteria listed in article 110 , paragraph 4 ( a ) and ( b ) , and the following criteria : ( a ) The conduct of the sentenced person while in detention , which shows a genuine dissociation from his or her crime ; ( b ) The prospect of the resocialization and successful resettlement of the sentenced person ; ( c ) Whether the early release of the sentenced person would give rise to significant social instability ; ( d ) Any significant action taken by the sentenced person for the benefit of the victims as well as any impact on the victims and their families as a result of the early release ; ( e ) Individual circumstances of the sentenced person , including a worsening state of physical or mental health or advanced age . Rule 224 Procedure for review concerning reduction of sentence For the application of article 110 , paragraph 3 , three judges of the Appeals Chamber appointed by that Chamber shall conduct a hearing , unless they decide otherwise in a particular case , for exceptional reasons . The hearing shall be conducted with the sentenced person , who may be assisted by his or her counsel , with interpretation , as may be required . Those three judges shall invite the Prosecutor , the State of enforcement of any penalty under article 77 or any reparation order pursuant to article 75 and , to the extent possible , the victims or their legal representatives who participated in the proceedings , to participate in the hearing or to submit written observations . Under exceptional circumstances , this hearing may be conducted by way of a videoconference or in the State of enforcement by a judge delegated by the Appeals Chamber . The same three judges shall communicate the decision and the reasons for it to all those who participated in the review proceedings as soon as possible . For the application of article 110 , paragraph 5 , three judges of the Appeals Chamber appointed by that Chamber shall review the question of reduction of sentence every three years , unless it establishes a shorter interval in its decision taken pursuant to article 110 , paragraph 3 . In case of a significant change in circumstances , those three judges may permit the sentenced person to apply for a review within the three-year period or such shorter period as may have been set by the three judges . For any review under article 110 , paragraph 5 , three judges of the Appeals Chamber appointed by that Chamber shall invite written representations from the sentenced person or his or her counsel , the Prosecutor , the State of enforcement of any penalty under article 77 and any reparation order pursuant to article 75 and , to the extent possible , the victims or their legal representatives who participated in the proceedings . The three judges may also decide to hold a hearing . The decision and the reasons for it shall be communicated to all those who participated in the review proceedings as soon as possible . Section VI Escape Rule 225 Measures under article 111 in the event of escape If the sentenced person has escaped , the State of enforcement shall , as soon as possible , advise the Registrar by any medium capable of delivering a written record . The Presidency shall then proceed in accordance with Part 9 . However , if the State in which the sentenced person is located agrees to surrender him or her to the State of enforcement , pursuant to either international agreements or its national legislation , the State of enforcement shall so advise the Registrar in writing . The person shall be surrendered to the State of enforcement as soon as possible , if necessary in consultation with the Registrar , who shall provide all necessary assistance , including , if necessary , the presentation of requests for transit to the States concerned , in accordance with rule 207 . The costs associated with the surrender of the sentenced person shall be borne by the Court if no State assumes responsibility for them . If the sentenced person is surrendered to the Court pursuant to Part 9 , the Court shall transfer him or her to the State of enforcement . Nevertheless , the Presidency may , acting on its own motion or at the request of the Prosecutor or of the initial State of enforcement and in accordance with article 103 and rules 203 to 206 , designate another State , including the State to the territory of which the sentenced person has fled . In all cases , the entire period of detention in the territory of the State in which the sentenced person was in custody after his or her escape and , where sub-rule 3 is applicable , the period of detention at the seat of the Court following the surrender of the sentenced person from the State in which he or she was located shall be deducted from the sentence remaining to be served ."	Legal
106	"Chapter 12 Programs 12.1 Managing Programs Launching a program Tap Start > All Programs , and then tap a desired program . To view more programs , scroll down the screen by swiping your finger upward . See "" Start Screen "" in Chapter 1 for details . Installing a program Note You can install or uninstall additional programs . Your device does not allow you to uninstall most of the preinstalled programs . Before you purchase additional programs , make sure that they are compatible with your device . Before you launch the program installer , check first whether the installer can directly run on Windows Mobile or needs to be run on a computer . To install a program directly on your device 1 . If the installer is a . cab file , directly download or copy it to your device . 2 . On your device , open File Explorer and navigate to the installer file . 3 . Tap the file to launch the installer . 216 Programs 4 . Choose whether to install the program into the main memory or your storage card , if you have the storage card inserted on your device . 5 . Wait for the installation to complete . Note You may be prompted to restart your device after installation is completed . To install a program from your computer 1 . If the installer is an . exe file such as Setup . exe , most likely , the installer needs to be run on a computer . Download or copy it to your computer . 2 . Connect your device to your computer using the USB cable , and then doubleclick the installer file on your computer to launch the installer . 3 . Follow the on-screen instructions on your computer and your device to complete the installation . To uninstall a program 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the System tab , tap Remove Programs . 3 . In the Programs in storage memory list , select the program you want to remove , and then tap Remove . Programs 217 12.2 Contacts Contacts is your address book for people and businesses you communicate with . You can add Outlook contacts from your device or synchronized with your PC or the Exchange Server , SIM contacts stored on the SIM card , or Windows LiveTM contacts . Note You can only add Windows LiveTM contacts after you have set up Windows LiveTM on your device . See "" Using Windows LiveTM "" in Chapter 8 . To open the Contacts screen Tap Start > All Programs > Contacts . Adding new contacts To add a contact on your device 1 . On the Contacts screen , tap New , select Outlook Contact , and enter the contact information . 2 . In the File as field , choose how you want the contact name to appear in the contact list . 3 . To add a photo of the contact , tap Select a picture , and then select the picture file or tap Camera to take a photo of the contact . 4 . To assign a ring tone to the contact , tap the Ring tone field , scroll through the list of tones , then select a desired tone . 5 . When finished , tap OK . Tip To edit contact information , tap the contact name and then tap Menu > Edit . To add a contact to your SIM card 1 . On the Contacts screen , tap New , then select SIM Contact . 2 . Enter a contact name and phone number , and then tap OK . Tip You can also use the SIM Manager to add and edit contacts on your SIM card . For more information , see "" SIM Manager "" in this chapter . 218 Programs Organizing and searching contacts To group similar contacts For easier contact management , you can group contacts by assigning them into categories . 1 . Create a new Outlook contact or edit an existing Outlook contact . 2 . Tap Categories . 3 . Select a preset category such as Business or Personal , or tap New to create your own category . 4 . When finished , tap OK . To find a contact on your device There are several ways to find a contact when your contact list is long : • • Begin entering a contact name in the provided text box until the contact you want is displayed . On the Quick Scroll bar on the right of the Contacts screen , scroll to or tap a letter to go directly to the part of the contacts list where contact names start with that letter . Note You can disable the Quick Scroll bar by tapping Menu > Options and selecting the Show alphabetical index check box . This shows the alphabetical index at the top of the Contacts list . Quick Scroll bar • Filter the list by categories . In the contact list , tap Menu > Filter , then tap a category you 've assigned to a contact . To show all contacts again , select Menu > Filter > All Contacts . Programs 219 Sharing contact information You can quickly send contact information to another mobile phone or device through Bluetooth beaming or text messaging . To send contact information via Bluetooth 1 . Tap and hold a contact on the Contacts screen . 2 . Tap Send via Bluetooth , then select the device where to send the contact . Note Before sending , make sure Bluetooth is turned on and set to visible mode on your device and the target mobile device . You can also send contact information to your computer . See Chapter 9 for details . To send contact information via text messaging 1 . Tap and hold a contact on the Contacts screen . 2 . Tap Send Contact > SMS / MMS . 3 . Select the contact information you want to send , and then tap Done . 4 . In the new text message , enter the mobile phone number of the recipient , and then tap Send . 220 Programs 12.3 JBlend Use JBlend to download , install and manage MIDlets or MIDlet suites on your device . MIDlets are Java applications such as games and tools that can run on mobile devices , while a MIDlet suite is a collection of one or more MIDlets . Your device supports Java 2 Micro Edition ( J2ME ) . To open JBlend Tap Start > All Programs > JBlend . Installing and launching MIDlets / MIDlet suites To download and install from the Internet 1 . Open an Internet browser , such as Opera Mobile . 2 . Navigate to the web page with the link for the MIDlet / MIDlet suite you want to download , and tap the link . 3 . Follow the onscreen instructions to install and run the MIDlet / MIDlet suite . To install from your device You can copy MIDlets / MIDlet suites from your PC to your device using the USB sync cable or Bluetooth connection . 1 . On the JBlend screen , tap Install > Local Install . The program then searches for MIDlets / MIDlet suites on your device and displays them in a list . 2 . From the list , tap the MIDlet / MIDlet suite that you want to install . 3 . Follow the onscreen instructions to install and run the MIDlet / MIDlet suite . To run a MIDlet / MIDlet suite On the JBlend screen , open the folder that contains the MIDlet / MIDlet suite , and then tap the MIDlet / MIDlet suite . Programs 221 Managing MIDlets / MIDlet suites You can update MIDlets / MIDlet suites , or uninstall them to free up memory space . To update a MIDlet / MIDlet suite 1 . On the JBlend screen , tap the Input Panel icon , and then tap the up / down navigation keys on the on-screen keyboard to select the MIDlet / MIDlet suite that you want to update . 2 . Tap Menu > Application > Update Info . JBlend then searches for updates for the selected MIDlet / MIDlet suite . To uninstall a MIDlet / MIDlet suite Before you uninstall a MIDlet , make sure that it is not running . 1 . On the JBlend screen , tap and hold the MIDlet , and then tap Delete . 2 . Tap Yes to confirm . Note To uninstall all MIDlets and folders , tap Menu > Application > Delete All . 222 Programs 12.4 JETCET Presentation If you are away from your office and urgently need to make a presentation , you can use JETCET Presentation to create a PowerPoint file and present it from your device . JETCET Presentation also allows you to open and display presentations that were created in Microsoft PowerPoint 97 , PowerPoint 2000 , PowerPoint 2002 ( XP ) , or PowerPoint 2003 . Opening JETCET Presentation Creating a new presentation Tap Start > All Programs > JETCET Presenter . When you open JETCET Presentation , the main screen displays a folder tree . Tap Menu > Cancel first and then tap Menu > File > New to create a new presentation . You can then enter text , insert graphics , and add more slides . To add text to a slide 1 . Tap Edit > Shape > Insert , tap , and then tap OK . 2 . Drag your finger or stylus to draw a text box on the slide . 3 . While the text box is selected , set the font type , size and style first and then start entering your text using the hardware keyboard or on-screen keyboard . 4 . While the text box is selected , tap Menu > Paragraph and then set the paragraph alignment , indentation , and line spacing . Tip To format the text with automated bullets or numbering , tap Menu > Paragraph > Bullets . 5 . To modify the properties of the text box , select the text box and then tap Edit > Shape > Modify . You can change the fill color , add or remove the border , and more . To wrap text inside the text box , tap the Text Box tab and then select the Word wrap text in AutoShape check box . Programs 223 To edit text 1 . Select the text box that contains the text you want to edit . 2 . Tap Edit > Text > Modify and then change your text . Tap within the text region to place the cursor exactly where you want to start editing . To insert an object shape 1 . Tap Edit > Shape > Insert . 2 . Tap an object , for example , an arrow , from the Autoshape Objects . 3 . Drag on the slide to draw the select shape . Tip To insert a picture , tap Edit > Shape > Picture . To add and edit slides 1 . Tap Edit > Slide > New to add a new slide . 2 . To change the background color of a slide , tap Edit > Slide > Background . 3 . In Background fill , tap Fill Effects to apply a gradient or tap More Colors to choose a solid color . 4 . Tap Apply to change the background color of the current slide , or tap Apply to All to change all slides . 5 . To apply a transition effect to the slides , tap Edit > Slide > Transition . 6 . In Effect , select the type of transition effect to use and then select a speed . 7 . Choose whether to advance slides on mouse click or automatically . If you select to auto-display slides , set the time delay . 8 . To make the changes to the current slide only , tap Apply . For the changes to affect all slides in the presentation , tap Apply to All . To save the presentation If this is your first time to save your presentation , tap Menu > File > Save As and then enter a new file name . To save changes made to your presentation , tap Menu > File > Save . 224 Programs Displaying the presentation You can connect your device to a large-screen display such as a television and show your presentation to an audience as a full-screen slideshow . For more information about connecting your device to a large-screen display , see "" Connecting to an External Display "" in Chapter 13 . To display the presentation as a slideshow 1 . Tap the PowerPoint file in the folder tree to open the file , or tap File > Open and then tap the PowerPoint file . 2 . Tap Menu > Show > Set Up Show . Select whether to advance slides Manually or Using timings , if present , and then tap OK . 3 . Tap Menu > Show > View Show . The presentation is then displayed in landscape and in full screen . 4 . Slide open the hardware keyboard . If you have set up the slideshow to advance manually , press the right arrow key to advance one slide forward and the left arrow key to go back one slide . Another way to advance one slide forward is to tap the screen . You can also tap the arrow watermark at the lower-left corner of the screen to open a selection menu , then tap Next or Previous to move between slides . Arrow watermark Programs 225 To exit the slideshow Tap the arrow watermark , tap the down arrow to scroll down the selection menu , and then tap End Show . For more information about using JETCET Presentation , tap JETCET Presentation to view the program help . on the toolbar of 12.5 Microsoft ® Office Mobile Microsoft ® Office Mobile consists of the following applications : • Microsoft ® Office Excel ® Mobile lets you create and edit Excel workbooks and templates on your device . • Microsoft ® Office OneNote ® Mobile lets you create notes with text , photos , and voice recordings for synchronization later with Microsoft ® Office OneNote ® 2007 on your computer . • Microsoft ® Office PowerPoint ® Mobile allows you to view ( not create ) slide show presentations in * . ppt and * . pps formats . • Microsoft ® Office Word Mobile lets you create and edit documents and templates in Word Mobile and save them as * . doc , * . rtf , * . txt , and * . dot files . To use Microsoft Office Mobile Tap Start > All Programs , and then tap the Office Mobile application that you want to use . Word Mobile and Excel Mobile do not fully support some features of Microsoft ® Office Word and Microsoft ® Office Excel ® . To find out which features are not supported , tap Start > All Programs > Help and then search for "" unsupported "" in the Help . 226 Programs Tips • By default , Word Mobile saves documents in . docx format , while Excel Mobile saves workbooks in . xlsx format . If you want to open these types of files on a computer that uses Microsoft Office 2000 , Office XP , or Office 2003 , you need to download and install the File Format Converter in your computer . Download the File Format Converter at http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/. • If you want Word Mobile to save documents in . doc format , tap Menu > Tools > Options ( or Menu > Options when no document is opened ) , then change the Default template to Word 97-2003 Document ( . doc ) . • If you want Excel Mobile to save workbooks in a format that is compatible with Microsoft Office 2000 , Office XP , or Office 2003 , tap Menu > Options ( with no workbook opened ) , then change the Template for new workbook to Blank 97-2003 Workbook . 12.6 SIM Manager SIM Manager allows you to view the contents of your SIM card , transfer contacts from your SIM card to your device or vice versa , and make a call to a SIM contact . To create a contact on your SIM card 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > SIM Manager . 2 . Tap New and enter the contact name and phone number . 3 . Tap Save . Tip To change contact information on your SIM card , tap a SIM contact , edit the information , and then tap Save . To copy SIM contacts to your device If you have saved contacts on your SIM card , you can copy them into Contacts on your device . 1 . On the SIM Manager screen , select the desired contact , or select all SIM contacts by tapping Menu > Select All . 2 . Tap Menu > Save to Contacts . Programs 227 To copy contacts to the SIM card Only one phone number per contact name can be stored on a SIM card . 1 . On the SIM Manager screen , tap Menu > Contacts to SIM . 2 . Select the check boxes of the contact's phone numbers that you want to copy to your SIM card , then tap Save . When you copy a contact that has several phone numbers to your SIM card , SIM Manager separately saves each number by appending an indicator at the end of each name . By default , / M , / W , and / H are appended to indicate mobile , work , and home phone numbers respectively . To edit the default indicators and to select which other types of numbers to save to the SIM card , tap Menu > Tools > Options . 12.7 WorldCard Mobile WorldCard Mobile lets you take a photo of a business card and easily export the contact information on the card into your Contacts . To capture a business card and export its information to Contacts 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > WorldCard Mobile . 2 . Tap on the WorldCard Mobile screen to open the Camera program . 3 . Tap the Virtual Camera button ( ) to take a photo of the business card , then tap the Back button ( ) on the Review screen . Refer to Chapter 11 for details on how to use the camera . Tip Make sure that the business card is displayed completely on the Camera screen before you take the photo , and that lighting is adequate . 4 . On the WorldCard Mobile screen , tap Recognize . Tips • If you want to retake the shot , tap Re-Capture . • For better recognition , choose the language and region based on the language used in the business card . 228 Programs 5 . The screen shows various contact information from the business card . Edit the contact information , if needed . Clear the check boxes of items that you do not want to be exported . 6 . Tap Export , then go to your Contacts list to view the exported contact . For more information about using WorldCard Mobile , tap Mobile screen to view the program help . on the WorldCar"	Instruction
694	ALL RUNNING SHOES IN THIS SECTION ARE SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR USE ON OPEN FELL OR ACROSS OPEN COUNTRY . DO N'T MISTAKE THEM FOR TRAIL SHOES AS THEY OFFER FAR BETTER GRIP , DURABILITY AND FIT THAN THIS TYPE OF SHOE . HOWEVER THE CUSHIOINING IS LIMITED TO ENABLE BETTER SUPPORT ON ROUGH TERRAIN . WHEN PURCHASING EITHER THE WALSH OR ADIDAS FELL RUNNING SHOES PLEASE BE INCLINED TO BUY A HALF SIZE BIGGER THAN YOUR NORMAL SHOE SIZE AS THESE TWO BRANDS ARE SMALL FOR SIZE . INOV8 ARE GOOD FOR SIZE SO BE INCLINED TO BUY A SIMILAR SIZE TO YOUR NORMAL SHOE SIZE .	Promotion
1037	This should be read in conjunction with our Terms and Conditions . We may at any time without notification make changes to the service in order to comply with applicable regulatory or statutory requirements or Codes of Practise . We reserve the right to decline to publish and the right to remove any Advertisement accepted by us . Those third parties who advertise with us are wholly responsible for ensuring material submitted complies with all legal requirements . We do not accept liability for the availability , accuracy or existence of any jobs advertised . Any advertised links on the site leading to resources located on servers maintained by third parties are outside JobDirectory Ltd's control . We accept no responsibility or liability for any material contained on those servers . All liability is excluded to the extent permitted by law including any implied terms .	Legal
898	"That evening the queen said to Keo , who was growing to be a fine child for his age : "" I wish you 'd run across the bend and ask your Uncle Nikki to come here . I have found a strange plant , and want him to tell me if it is good to eat . "" The jolly one laughed heartily as he started upon his errand , for he felt as important as a boy does when he is sent for the first time to the corner grocery to buy a yeast cake . "" Guk-uk-uk-uk ! guk-uk-uk-uk ! "" was the way he laughed ; and if you think a hippopotamus does not laugh this way you have but to listen to one and you will find I am right . He crawled out of the mud where he was wallowing and tramped away through the bushes , and the last his mother heard as she lay half in and half out of the water was his musical "" guk-uk-uk-uk ! "" dying away in the distance . Keo was in such a happy mood that he scarcely noticed where he stepped , so he was much surprised when , in the middle of a laugh , the ground gave way beneath him , and he fell to the bottom of Gouie's deep pit . He was not badly hurt , but had bumped his nose severely as he went down ; so he stopped laughing and began to think how he should get out again . Then he found the walls were higher than his head , and that he was a prisoner . So he laughed a little at his own misfortune , and the laughter soothed him to sleep , so that he snored all through the night until daylight came . When Gouie peered over the edge of the pit next morning he exclaimed : "" Why , ' tis Ippi--the Jolly One ! "" Keo recognized the scent of a black man and tried to raise his head high enough to bite him . Seeing which Gouie spoke in the hippopotamus language , which he had learned from his grandfather , the sorcerer . "" Have peace , little one ; you are my captive . "" "" Yes ; I will have a piece of your leg , if I can reach it , "" retorted Keo ; and then he laughed at his own joke : "" Guk-uk-uk-uk ! "" But Gouie , being a thoughtful black man , went away without further talk , and did not return until the following morning . When he again leaned over the pit Keo was so weak from hunger that he could hardly laugh at all . "" Do you give up ? "" asked Gouie , "" or do you still wish to fight ? "" "" What will happen if I give up ? "" inquired Keo . The black man scratched his woolly head in perplexity . "" It is hard to say , Ippi . You are too young to work , and if I kill you for food I shall lose your tusks , which are not yet grown . Why , O Jolly One , did you fall into my hole ? I wanted to catch your mother or one of your uncles . "" "" Guk-uk-uk-uk ! "" laughed Keo . "" You must let me go , after all , black man ; for I am of no use to you ! "" "" That I will not do , "" declared Gouie ; "" unless , "" he added , as an afterthought , "" you will make a bargain with me . "" "" Let me hear about the bargain , black one , for I am hungry , "" said Keo . "" I will let your go if you swear by the tusks of your grandfather that you will return to me in a year and a day and become my prisoner again . "" The youthful hippopotamus paused to think , for he knew it was a solemn thing to swear by the tusks of his grandfather ; but he was exceedingly hungry , and a year and a day seemed a long time off ; so he said , with another careless laugh : "" Very well ; if you will now let me go I swear by the tusks of my grandfather to return to you in a year and a day and become your prisoner . "" Gouie was much pleased , for he knew that in a year and a day Keo would be almost full grown . So he began digging away one end of the pit and filling it up with the earth until he had made an incline which would allow the hippopotamus to climb out . Keo was so pleased when he found himself upon the surface of the earth again that he indulged in a merry fit of laughter , after which he said : "" Good-by , Gouie ; in a year and a day you will see me again . "" Then he waddled away toward the river to see his mother and get his breakfast , and Gouie returned to his village . During the months that followed , as the black man lay in his hut or hunted in the forest , he heard at times the faraway "" Guk-uk-uk-uk ! "" of the laughing hippopotamus ."	Prose/Lyrical
115	"Chapter 8 Internet 8.1 Ways of Connecting to the Internet Your device's networking capabilities allow you to access the Internet or your corporate network through Wi-Fi , GPRS / 3G ( or EDGE when available ) , or dial-up . You can also add and set up a VPN or proxy connection . Wi-Fi Note Wi-Fi provides wireless Internet access over distances of up to 100 meters ( 300 feet ) . To use Wi-Fi on your device , you need access to a wireless access point or "" hotspot "" . The availability and range of your device's Wi-Fi signal depends on the number , infrastructure , and other objects through which the signal passes . To turn Wi-Fi on and connect to a Wi-Fi network 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap Communications . 2 . Tap Wi-Fi . Detected wireless networks are displayed on the screen . 3 . Tap the desired Wi-Fi network . • If you selected an open ( unsecured ) network , you are automatically connected to the network . • If you selected a secured network , enter the security key and then tap Done . You are then connected to the network . 154 Internet Indicates that your device is connected to this Wi-Fi network Indicates a secured Wi-Fi network . Signal strength Network name ( SSID ) 4 . Tap Back to return to the Communications screen . Next time you use your device to detect Wi-Fi networks , you will not be prompted to enter the network key of the previously accessed Wi-Fi network ( unless you perform a hard reset which will erase custom settings on your device ) . Notes • Wi-Fi networks are self-discoverable , which means no additional steps are required for your device to connect to a Wi-Fi network . It may be necessary to provide a username and password for certain closed wireless networks . • To turn off Wi-Fi , on the Communications screen , tap the OFF / ON slider at the right side of the Wi-Fi item . Internet 155 To check Wi-Fi network status Aside from the Wi-Fi status icon on the title bar , you can check the current Wi-Fi connection status from any of the following screens of your device : • Wireless LAN screen Tap Advanced on the Wi-Fi screen . On the Main tab , you will see the Wi-Fi network that your device is currently connected to . The configuration and signal quality of the Wi-Fi network are also shown . • Configure Wireless Networks screen Tap Start > Settings > All Settings > Connections tab > Wi-Fi and then tap the Wireless Networks button . This screen displays all available Wi-Fi networks in range . To connect to a Wi-Fi network in the list , tap and hold on the desired network , and then tap Connect . Tap a Wi-Fi network in the list to view or change its connection settings . You can also add new Wi-Fi networks , if available , by tapping Add New . 156 Internet To save battery power while connected to a Wi-Fi network Using Wi-Fi quickly consumes battery power . Turn off Wi-Fi when not in use . You can also enable power saving settings while using Wi-Fi . 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap Menu > Wireless Networks > Power Mode tab . 2 . Move the Power Save Mode slider to a position that optimizes performance with the least power consumption . For example , move the slider to the left ( Best Performance ) to have the optimal wireless network performance ; move to the right ( Best Battery ) to obtain the maximum battery usage . GPRS / 3G Use GPRS / 3G ( or EDGE , if available ) to connect to the Internet and to send and receive email on your device . You will need a data plan to use your wireless service provider's GPRS / 3G network . Check with your wireless service provider to find out about GPRS / 3G rates . If you completed the Connection Setup process for auto-configuring the data connection the first time you turned on your device , your device is ready to use your wireless service provider's GPRS / 3G services . Do not change the connection settings as this may cause services to stop working . If you need to add another GPRS / 3G connection on your device , contact your wireless service provider . Note If you did not complete the auto-configuration process before , follow the instructions in "" To manually select the network operator to use for data connections "" in Chapter 13 to configure the data connection for your device . Internet 157 Dial-up To set up a dial-up connection to your Internet Service Provider ( ISP ) on your device , you need the same settings that you normally use when you dial up from your computer . This includes the ISP server phone number , your user name and password . 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the Connections tab , tap Connections . 3 . Tap Add a new modem connection . 4 . In the Select a modem list , select Cellular Line , then tap Next . 5 . Enter the ISP server phone number , then tap Next . 6 . Enter your user name , password , and any other information required by your ISP , then tap Finish . Starting a data connection After setting up a data connection such as GPRS / 3G or ISP dial-up on your device , you can now connect your device to the Internet . The connection is automatically started when you begin using a program that accesses the Internet such as Opera Mobile . To manually start a data connection If you have set up multiple types of data connections on your device , you can manually start a connection . 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap All Settings . 2 . On the Connections tab , tap Connections . 3 . Tap Manage existing connections . 4 . Tap and hold the name of the desired connection , and then tap Connect . To disconnect active data connections 1 . On the Home screen , slide to the Settings tab , and then tap Communications . 2 . Tap the OFF / ON slider at the right side of the Data Connection item . 158 Internet 8.2 Using Opera MobileTM Opera MobileTM is a full-featured Internet browser , optimized for use on your device . To open Opera Mobile and go to a website 1 . On the Home screen , slide to the Internet tab and then tap Launch Browser . 2 . On the Opera Mobile screen , tap the address bar . Note If the address bar is hidden , tap at the bottom-right corner of the screen . 3 . Enter the URL address and tap . The browser screen 1 8 2 3 1 2 4 5 6 7 9 Refresh the web page being viewed . Enter the URL of the web site here . Internet 159 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Return to the previous web page viewed . Go to the Bookmarks screen where you can add , edit , or send bookmarks . Add a new browsing tab or switch to another browsing tab . Go to the home page . Open a list where you can change Opera Mobile settings . See "" Opera Mobile menu "" in this chapter for details . Close the current tab . This is enabled only if you have more than one tab opened . When browsing the web , Opera Mobile automatically switches to full screen mode . Tap to show the address and Menu bars again . Opera Mobile menu On the menu bar , tap to open the menu . Open the Settings screen where you can set your home page , change display settings , set privacy settings , and more . View items being downloaded , and resume or stop current downloads . View information about the web page you are browsing . See web pages that you have viewed . Manage and view web pages that you have saved . Open the Opera Mobile help file . Close Opera Mobile completely . Note For more information about using Opera Mobile , go to : http://www.opera.com/products/mobile/. 160 Internet Navigating web pages To pan on the web page While browsing web pages , use finger gestures to pan on the web page . Tip Touch and hold an empty area on a web page to open a shortcut menu that lets you go back to the previous page , reload the page , add the page as a Favorite , and more . You can also tap and hold a link or image on a web page to open a menu with different options . To zoom in and out on web pages While viewing a web page in full screen , slide to the right of the zoom bar to zoom in on the web page . To zoom out , slide your finger to the left . Tip You can also tap the screen twice to zoom in . To zoom out , tap the screen twice again . Zooming in Zooming out Internet 161 To change the screen orientation Change the screen orientation by simply turning your device sideways . 162 Internet 8.3 Using YouTubeTM YouTubeTM lets you browse , search , and watch Internet videos that are posted in YouTube . Note You need an active data or Wi-Fi connection to use YouTube . If you are using a GPRS / 3G connection , watching Internet videos may significantly increase your data connection costs . To open YouTube On the Home screen , slide to the Internet tab , and then tap YouTube . Open the Program Guide . Displays the current program channel being viewed . Set the quality of downloaded videos and site ( country ) preference . Close YouTube . Filter the list by type of video ( Featured , Most Viewed , Top Favorited , or Top Rated ) and by the time period when videos were uploaded to the YouTube server . Displays the available videos for the selected program channel . Tap a video to watch it . Tap to view details about the video . Switch between the YouTube screens . Searching videos 1 . On the YouTube screen , tap . 2 . On the Search screen , enter the video information , and then tap Search . Internet 163 YouTube searches for the video , and then displays all related videos on the screen . 3 . Tap on a video to watch it . See "" Watching videos "" for details . Using the Program Guide The Program Guide categorizes videos into channels so you can browse and watch related videos available on YouTube . You can also add your favorite video channel in the Program Guide . To add a new channel 1 . Search the channel or video you want to add to the Program Guide . See "" Searching videos "" for details . 2 . In the search results list , tap at the right side of the video or channel to open the details screen . 3 . Tap , and then tap OK on the confirmation screen . The channel you just subscribed to is shown when you tap Program Guide . Tip You can also add a search information as a program channel . To change the program channel 1 . On the Videos screen , tap Program Guide at the top of the screen . 2 . On the Program Guide , select a channel . 164 Internet Tip You can scroll down to view more channels . The video list refreshes to display the available videos for the selected channel . To delete a program channel You can only delete channels that you have added to the Program Guide . 1 . Tap Program Guide . 2 . Scroll down to the channel that you want to delete , and then tap 3 . On the confirmation screen , tap Yes .. Watching videos Tap a video on any YouTube screen , program guide channel , or search results list to launch the YouTube Video Player . Drag to go forward or backward in the video . Download progress Go back to the beginning of the video . Buffered video Depending on the quality of downloaded videos you selected , tap to view the video in its actual size , in expanded size , or in full screen . Play / pause the video . Stop the video playback . Tip To adjust the volume , press the VOLUME UP and VOLUME DOWN buttons on the left panel of the device . Internet 165 When you tap Stop ( the following options . ) or finish watching the entire video , you can select from Go back to the previous page of related videos . Send the link of the previously watched video via e-mail , or to send the video thumbnail via MMS . Go to the next page of related videos . If no action is taken , the next page is automatically displayed after 10 seconds . View information about the video you just watched . Add the video to your Bookmarks . Replay the video . Bookmarks You can save your favorite videos in Bookmarks for quick access . To save a video in Bookmarks After watching a video , tap . You can also tap on any video that you want to add to Bookmarks and then tap on the video details screen . To watch videos in Bookmarks On the YouTube screen , tap . Tap a video to watch it . 166 Internet To delete a video from Bookmarks 1 . On the Bookmarks screen , tap Edit . 2 . Tap on the video you want to remove . 3 . On the confirmation screen , tap Yes . 4 . Tap Done . History Note View recently watched videos on the History screen . On the YouTube screen , tap and then tap a video to watch it . To clear the History list , tap Clear . 8.4 Using Streaming Media Streaming Media lets you stream live broadcasts or on-demand media content from the web . The media is sent in a continuous stream to your device and is played as it arrives , along with the audio . The Streaming Media program allows you to play 3GP and MPEG-4 files . It also supports playback of SDP ( Session Description Protocol ) files . To access streaming content via Opera Mobile In Opera Mobile , you can open a web page containing RTSP ( Real Time Streaming Protocol ) links to streaming media content then play the content in the Streaming Media program . 1 . On the Home screen , slide to the Internet tab and tap Launch Browser . 2 . In the address bar , enter the URL address of the web page that contains the RTSP link to the desired * . 3gp , * . mp4 , or * . sdp file . 3 . On the web page , tap the RTSP link . Internet 167 4 . Streaming Media then automatically opens and starts playing the file . During playback , use the slider and button controls to play / pause , switch to full screen , replay , and fast forward . Tap to toggle between playing or pausing the video playback . Play video from the beginning . Switch to full screen mode . In full screen mode , tap to switch back . Drag the slider to go backward or forward on the video . View the video in its actual size , in expanded size , or in full screen . Stop playback . To stream media files directly on the Streaming Media Player Streaming Media only supports RTSP links when you stream * . 3gp and * . mp4 files directly on the program . 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > Streaming Media . 2 . Tap Menu > Connect . 3 . Enter the complete RTSP link , and then tap Connect . Streaming Media starts playing the file . 4 . During playback , use the slider and playback control buttons to play / pause , switch to full screen , replay , and fast forward . 168 Internet To view streaming video information While streaming a video clip , tap Menu > Properties to view the video properties such as the video link or location , duration , and bit rate . To configure streaming video connection settings Tap Menu > Options to configure the Streaming Media settings . From this screen , you can set the media buffer , select the connection to use , and set all streaming videos to play in full screen . 8.5 Using Windows LiveTM Windows LiveTM helps you quickly find information using Windows LiveTM Search , access and synchronize your Windows LiveTM Mail e-mails and contacts , and send instant messages using Windows LiveTM Messenger . To set up Windows LiveTM for the first time 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > Windows Live , and then tap Sign in to Windows Live . 2 . Tap the links to read the Windows LiveTM Terms of Use and the Microsoft Online Privacy Statement . After reviewing them , tap Accept . 3 . Enter your Windows LiveTM Mail or Hotmail address and password , select the Save password checkbox , and then tap Next . 4 . Tap Next . 5 . Choose what information you want to sync online with your device . If you select Store Windows Live contacts in your mobile phone's contact list , your Windows LiveTM contacts will be added to the contact list and to Windows LiveTM Messenger on your device . Internet 169 If you select Sync e-mail , your Windows LiveTM Mail or Hotmail inbox messages will be downloaded to your device . 6 . Tap Next . 7 . After synchronization is complete , tap Done . The Windows LiveTM screen Search bar . Enter the information you want to search , then tap . Switch between the Windows LiveTM Messenger , Windows LiveTM Mail , and Sync status screens . Change your display name , picture , and personal message . Adjust Windows LiveTM settings . Using Windows LiveTM Messenger With this mobile version of Windows LiveTM Messenger , you can send and receive instant messages . To sign in to Windows LiveTM Messenger and start a conversation 1 . Tap Messenger on the Windows LiveTM screen . 2 . Tap Sign in on the Messenger screen . Signing in may take several minutes , depending on your connection speed . 170 Internet 3 . In the contact list , select an online contact , and then tap Send IM to open the message screen . 4 . On the message screen , enter your message in the text field , then tap the Enter key on the on-screen keyboard to send the message . You can also do any of the following on the message screen : • To add an emoticon , tap Menu > Add emoticon , then tap an emoticon on the screen . The emoticon is attached to your message . To send a file , tap Menu > Send , select the type of file ( picture , voice clip , or any file ) , and then locate the file you want to send . To invite one or more contacts to the conversation , tap Menu > Options > Add participant . To send a voice message , tap Voice clip on the message screen , then start talking . When you have finished recording , tap Send . • • • 5 . To end the conversation with the current contact , tap Menu > End conversation . 6 . To sign out , tap Menu > Sign Out . To add a Windows LiveTM contact You can add new Windows LiveTM contacts in Windows LiveTM Messenger . 1 . Tap Menu > Add new contact . 2 . Enter the e-mail address of the contact , and then tap OK . Internet 171 8.6 Using RSS Hub RSS Hub is an RSS reader that keeps you up-to-date with the latest news from the Internet . It monitors RSS feeds from your favorite news sites , blogs and more , and downloads the most current updates and podcasts . For more information about RSS Hub , tap Start > All Programs > Help , and then tap Help for Added Programs > RSS Hub . Subscribing to and organizing news channels To subscribe to news channels 1 . Tap Start > All Programs > RSS Hub , and then tap Continue . 2 . In the New Channel Wizard screen , select the Choose from a list of known Channels option , and then tap Next . A list of RSS channels is displayed . Note If the RSS channel you want to subscribe to is not in the list of known channels , tap Back , then select another option on the New Channel Wizard screen . You must subscribe to news channels before you can receive RSS feeds . Tap to load pre-selected RSS channels . 172 Internet 3 . Select the checkboxes of the RSS channels you want to subscribe to , then tap Finish . Category Channels Tip Channels are grouped by categories . If you want to select all channels in a category , select the category check box . 4 . The channel list appears . Tap Refresh to update the channels . Internet 173 Select the channel category to display Channel is updated . Tap to view the headlines . Channel list Headline count Update the channels Cancel channel updating To add new channels 1 . In the channel list , tap Menu > Channel > New to open the New Channel Wizard screen . 2 . Select an option , and then follow screen instructions to add new channels . To filter the channels to display In the channel list , tap Menu > View , and then select Updated to display only those channels with unread items , or All to display all subscribed channels . 174 Internet Using the headline list Tap a channel in the channel list to display the headline list . Tap a headline to open the news summary screen . Play back the podcast or view the image . New or unread item Item has been read Podcast or image attachment is downloading . Download the podcast or image attachment . The item contains a keyword . Return to the channel list New or unread items display in bold and are marked with a blue newspaper icon . Items that have been read are marked with a gray newspaper icon . Internet 175 Viewing the news summary Tap a headline in the headline list to display the news summary . Channel name Headline and read status News summary Open the complete article in Opera Mobile . See "" Using Opera Mobile "" in this chapter for details . Return to the headline list Podcast or image attachment . Tap the link to download the file . Tap Menu to change the way that text is displayed , save a podcast , send a link to the article via e-mail , and more . To download , play , or save podcasts 1 . On the news summary screen tap the Download audio / Download video link or the audio / video podcast icon . Tip To cancel the file download , tap Cancel download below the audio / video file icon . 2 . After downloading the file , do one of the following : • Tap Play audio / Play video or the audio / video file icon to play back the file . • Tap Menu > Podcast > Save to save a copy of the file to the device's main memory or storage card . 176 Internet To send the a link to the article via e-mail 1 . In the news summary screen , tap Menu > Send Link via Email . 2 . Messaging opens and displays the Account Picker screen . Tap the e-mail account that you want to use . A new e-mail message is then created with the link . 3 . Specify the e-mail recipients , and then tap Send . Note For more information on how to compose e-mails , see "" Creating and sending an e-mail message "" in Chapter 6 . To view the next or previous news summary In the news summary screen , tap Menu > Next or Menu > Previous . 8.7 Using Your Device as a Modem ( Internet Sharing ) Internet Sharing connects your desktop or notebook computer to the Internet by using your device's data connection such as GPRS / 3G . You can connect via USB or Bluetooth . Before you proceed • Make sure your device has a SIM card installed , and your device has a GPRS / 3G or dial-up modem connection . If your device has not been set up with a data connection yet , tap Menu > Connection Settings on the Internet Sharing screen . For more information about setting up these connections , see "" GPRS / 3G "" and "" Dial-up "" in this chapter . To set up your device as a USB modem , you must first install Windows Mobile Device Center or Microsoft ActiveSync version 4.5 or later on the computer . To use a Bluetooth connection , make sure your computer has built-in Bluetooth capability . If your computer does not have Bluetooth , you can connect and use a Bluetooth adapter or dongle . • • Internet 177 Setting up your device as a USB modem 1 . Connect the device to your desktop or notebook computer using the USB sync cable . 2 . When the Connect to PC screen appears , select Internet Sharing , then tap Done . 3 . In the Network Connection list , select the name of the connection that your device uses to connect to the Internet . 4 . Tap Connect . Using your device as a Bluetooth modem To use your device as a Bluetooth modem for your computer , set up a Bluetooth Personal Area Network ( PAN ) between your device and your computer . To set up Bluetooth PAN on your device 1 . On your device , turn on Bluetooth and set it to visible mode . For instructions , see "" To turn Bluetooth on and make your device visible "" in Chapter 9 . 2 . Initiate a Bluetooth partnership from your device . For instructions , see "" To create a Bluetooth partnership "" in Chapter 9 . 3 . Tap Start > All Programs > Internet Sharing . 4 . Select Bluetooth PAN as the PC Connection . 5 . From the Network Connection list , select the name of the connection that your device uses to connect to the Internet , and then tap Connect . 178 Internet 6 . Set up Bluetooth PAN on your computer . For instructions , see "" To set up Bluetooth PAN on your computer "" . 7 . On the Internet Sharing screen on your device , check whether a connected status message is displayed , which indicates that your computer has been successfully connected to the Internet using your device as a Bluetooth modem . To set up Bluetooth PAN on your computer For Windows Vista : 1 . Click Start > Control Panel > Network and Internet > Network and Sharing Center . 2 . Click Manage network connections and then under Personal Area Network , double-click Bluetooth Network Connection . 3 . In the Bluetooth Personal Area Network Devices dialog box , select your device , and click Connect . For Windows XP : 1 . Tap Start > Control Panel > Network Connections . 2 . Under Personal Area Network , click the Bluetooth Network Connection icon . 3 . Under Network Tasks , click View Bluetooth network devices . 4 . In the Bluetooth Personal Area Network Devices dialog box , select your device , and click Connect . Note If the Bluetooth adapter or dongle on your computer was installed using a third-party driver , open the Bluetooth software that came with the Bluetooth adapter / dongle to connect your computer and device via Bluetooth . Refer to the Bluetooth adapter / dongle documentation for more information . Ending the Internet connection On the Internet Sharing screen , tap Disconnect ."	Instruction
1004	"Cambridge University Boxing This year will probably see the first "" varsity match "" for female boxing ( a match in the sense we will probably have only one bout ) to be held on the same night as the boys in Oxford Town Hall on 10th march . However already at BUSA this year we have had the first ever female boxing bout between Oxford and Cambridge ( in fact the first ever female fight at BUSA ) where Cambridge went out as the winning side !"	News
474	Child not enrolled at a state school If you decide to home educate in Scotland and your child is not enrolled as a pupil at a ' public ' ( i . e . state ) school , there is no legal obligation to register with , or otherwise inform , your local authority , although you might reasonably expect its officers to request information about your arrangements if you come to their attention .	Instruction
984	"By Tom Newton Dunn , Defence Correspondent The Mirror 17 July 2002 TWO Israeli arms companies have been invited to show their wares at a popular British air show next week . Rafael and Elbit Systems will be exhibiting their full range at the Farnborough International Airshow . It is the first time Israeli companies have been invited to Farnborough since the Intifada uprising began in September 2000 . The show is run by the Society of British Aerospace Companies but is supported by the British Government . Trade and Industry Secretary Patricia Hewitt will attend on Monday . But her Department yesterday declined to comment on the ethics of the issue . Labour MP Alice Mahon last night tabled a motion criticising the Government . She said : "" The message we are sending to our Arab friends is that we do n't care what the Israeli government does . "" Earlier this year , the Government refused export licences for Israel if equipment could be used against the Palestinians . But in a U-turn last week Foreign Secretary Jack Straw agreed to export parts for US F16 fighters going to Israel . And on Monday the Mirror revealed the MoD was to spend £ 200million on 5,000 Rafael Spike missiles , which the Israelis have used to target Palestinian militants ."	News
916	"Ch-ch-changes - Part Five Giles saw Buffy grab Spike's lapels , and he did n't bother to repress a groan . "" Oh , you git . You have n't told her ? "" "" Told me that you have a , a -- "" she began . "" -- Love , just hang on . "" Then Spike shot him a look as narrow-eyed and vicious as any in the Big Bad's pre-conscience arsenal . "" Giles . Go , and take Anya with you . "" Leaning on Anya's supporting arm , he got to his feet . Much as he enjoyed being this close to her , he was damn tired of the tottering-old-man moves . Also , his ribs stung , even though he knew Spike had tried not to break anything when saving his life . All in all , it was n't the post-crisis image he had hoped to project , which lent an edge to his voice : "" Keys then , mate . "" "" What ? "" "" Keys . I 'm not bloody walking . Give me the car keys . "" Spike jerked away from Buffy's pinioning arms , dug in his pocket , then hurled them hard , straight and over-arm . Should have guessed the little twerp was a fast bowler , Giles thought . Not being a fool , he did n't attempt a catch but let the keys fall in the dust behind him . "" I 'll get them for you , Rupert . "" Anya bent down , a pleasing angle , and retrieved them . "" Although I could always just have teleported -- "" "" No ! "" He had to take a breath , lower his voice . "" No , dear , I 'd prefer to drive . "" And he crooked his arm for her . "" Would you care to accompany me ? "" She looked at him for a second , then inclined her head and accepted his escort to the DeSoto . *** When he heard the car pull away , Spike turned away from Buffy . There lay the ruins of what once had been Sunnydale High , deceptively picturesque in the moonlight . They had had their first real confrontation in those halls . He could almost hear the echoes in the still night : "" As a personal favour from me to you , I promise I 'll make it quick . It wo n't hurt a bit . "" And her soft-voiced "" No , Spike . It 's gonna hurt a lot . "" He had had no idea how much , he thought . He really had n't . Then he was spun around hard , and Buffy grabbed the coat again . "" Is it true ? What Giles said ? You have a soul now . "" "" Yes , although I 'd prefer you not to call it -- "" She pushed him away with Slayer-strength , and he stumbled back several feet . "" What the bloody hell was that for ? "" "" For you being you , stupid idiot ! What did you do ? What were you thinking ? To go off ... to make me ... let me ... oh God , I ca n't breathe -- "" and she fell to her knees , sobbing . He cursed under his breath , then dropped down beside her . "" Oh , love . Please . Please do n't . "" She shook with the force of her tears , her body almost coming apart , and he could n't bear it . Tentatively he put his arms around her -- she at once tried to crawl into his lap , but he was n't situated quite right . The two of them struggled , almost toppling over , but he used his strength to balance and find a place for her . And then he rocked her , murmuring "" Darling , darling "" into her hair as she let out months of accumulated pain in almost animal wails . He wrapped his hands around hers and held on . *** Giles wrapped his hands tightly around the old steering wheel . Anya was sitting quietly in the passenger seat , looking out the cracks of the painted windshield , and he could n't stop turning his head to make sure she was still there , still next to him . "" Giles , why do you keep looking at me ? "" Well , it is Anya , he thought , he should expect the honest question . He would have to be honest in return , if he could just clear his throat of all the words ( lies , compliments , lines , entreaties ) choking him . "" Dear , I 'm happy that you 're here . And I 'm afraid you 'll leave . "" She did n't say anything . He sighed , then realized something . He had been driving for a bit , not actually heading in a specific direction , but apparently Ripper had been sending coded messages to his brain . They had reached his hotel . He pulled into the parking lot , found a place , and turned off the car . Yet Anya said nothing . This was n't like her at all . "" Would you , er , like to come in for a drink ? Celebrate teamwork , preventing the collapse of dimensions , another success ? I 'm not suggesting my room , but the hotel bar has a rather nice selection of -- "" Her eyes wide and dark , she leaned across and put her finger on his lips . Well , then . He kissed the finger . And she lunged at him . *** Buffy did n't cry as long as he 'd expected . The tearing sobs soon subsided into hiccuping breaths , and now she sat quietly , cradled in his lap , her small hands surrounded by his . But of course that would n't last either . He started counting in his head : one , two , three , four -- And she pushed up and off , one boot digging into his shin as she moved . She was such a wounded creature , he thought , so far from the happy girl he 'd first seen twirling , hands in the air , at the Bronze . But she was strong . And it was the strong Buffy who turned to face him now . She had dashed tears away , but the tracks were still visible in the moonlight . Her face was set , but not cold -- a gain , a definite gain , he thought . Then she said something he had n't anticipated : "" Who did you kill ? "" Fabulous . A trick question . "" What ? Pet , I did n't keep a list or anything . Well other than -- "" And for the first time in his long unlife he managed to bite back , literally , the completely stupid comment "" of Slayers "" which was coming next . He could taste the blood on his tongue . "" No. No , Spike . I mean , who did you kill so that you got cursed with a soul . "" Bloody buggering hell . Bloody bollocks of a bog-trotting son of a bitch , the Poof struck again . Fired by a blast of sudden crackling rage , Spike leapt to his feet and roared , "" No one ! Not in a long time , oh , DAMN it ! "" He stalked forward . "" See , this is why I did n't tell you . Besides that we got busy and I forgot . You had to bring him into it , did n't you ? ' S never about Spike , no , it 's all about HIM . "" He whirled , paced away from her so that he would n't unleash fist or fangs . He should have guessed , why had n't he guessed . She spun him around again , and he snarled . She did n't run . Got closer , hands on the duster , fingernails digging in . "" Then how the hell did you get a soul , if not cursed ? Wal-Mart ? Buy-and-sell-souls-dot-com ? ' Cause I 'm really eager to know . "" "" Oh are you ? Could n't tell from over here . Been back two sodding days , have n't heard much in the way of inquiry about where I 've been or what I 've been doing . Why the bloody hell would I bother to tell you anything ? "" "" I saved you this morning ! And I told you not to dust ! "" "" Yeah , ' cause you wanted to kill me yourself . God , Buffy . "" And the anger burned out as quickly as it had come . He put his hands over hers , holding her to him . This was going to be worse than the quest itself . "" Right then . After I hurt you so badly ... before , you know ... I realized I could n't stay the way I was . Torn up . So I heard about this spirit-caller half a world away , and I decided I 'd see what there was to see . Find out if there was something else I could do or be . "" Her eyes were locked on him . He could n't read them , though , and he swallowed hard . "" Managed to get to the shaman , and he sent me inside myself . I wo n't tell you what I saw or did , but end result , a conscience and no chip . "" He managed a short , pain-filled laugh . "" We 're not calling it a soul for the very reason you just demonstrated . I 'm not Peaches , nor was meant to be . "" She looked at him for a long moment . Her fingers intertwined with his , pressed briefly , then pulled away . "" Oh , Spike . You might not be Angel . But you keep changing on me . "" She brushed a butterfly kiss on his lips , then she walked away from him . He stood there in the moonlight . Yeah , he had had no idea how much it was going to hurt . *** "" Damn it , that hurt ! "" Giles snapped , briefly coming out of his fog of lust . Almost stretched out in the front seat of the DeSoto , lips and hands fully engaged on top of the sweet-smelling and quite delightfully aggressive ( if still unfortunately clothed ) Anya , was a location next door to paradise . If only he did n't keep hitting the steering column whenever he moved . "" What ? Wait . Wait . Giles , get off . "" And Anya pushed him back into the steering column , hitting right on the fresh bruise . Bloody buggery hell . Swallowing a more inventive stream of curses and firmly shoving Ripper ( now growling in frustration ) back into the mental box where he usually lived , Giles managed to scramble back to his side of the car . Breathe in and breathe out , old man . Think of tweed . Think of Travers . Anya took her own series of deep calming breaths , settling back into the passenger seat . The two sat there a moment , separate , staring into black glass . Then Giles managed , his voice almost normal , "" Anya ? You all right ? "" "" I think so . "" His hand went towards hers , but she moved a bit further away from him . "" Giles , would you say my name ? "" "" Darling Anya . "" Her brown eyes did n't waver from his . Oh , right . "" Anyanka . "" Those eyes filled with tears . "" You do n't want to be with Anyanka , do you ? Not really . "" Did he want to love a demon ? He 'd never imagined , even in his chaos-worshiping days , such a question posed to him . But he needed to answer it honestly . He took a moment to organize his thoughts , then claimed her hand . "" I want to be with you . The vengeance part deeply troubles me , I admit ; the idea of you hurting people throughout dimensions , well ... But strangely , er , I do n't actually mind the demon part . "" He risked a small grin . "" At least when you 're Anyanka , I 'm the younger man . "" "" Are you worried about age ? Because from what I can tell , you 're far more skilled than , say , Xander , which -- "" "" Darling , stop right there . Please , no comparisons . Ever . "" She squeezed his hand . "" But you 're better so far . "" He could n't repress a laugh , and she smiled at him . Then her expression shifted , back to that thinking-hard face he 'd seen a thousand times , over invoices or a question of demon history or that stock-market website she favoured , and his heart melted . Then she turned to him . "" I have to go right now . I have something to do . But I 'll be back soon . "" She released his hand , then disapparated . He stared at the empty space beside him . God , he needed a drink . Of his private stock . *** Spike's right hand reached for his glass , and he took a swallow of extremely good brandy . As golden as the lamplight in which he sat , it warmed him a bit . Then he bent to his task again , his left hand moving across the page of his notebook . The bell over the door rang , and he looked up to see Giles . "" What are you doing in the Magic Box , Spike ? And how did you get in ? "" "" Did n't want to go home . Came through the basement . "" He returned to his notebook . Giles walked over to the table and picked up the bottle of brandy . Spike did n't need to look up to know that Rupert's eyebrows were up around his ( receding ) hairline : poor Watcher had n't realized Spike had found the good stuff months ago . Then Giles fetched another glass , came back to the table , and sat . He poured his own , then took a sip . Spike finished the sentence he was writing , then drank again . Giles scrutinized him , but at least it was n't the Ripper stare he 'd used to terrorize Xander . He took another drink . Giles mirrored his action , then put his glass on the table . "" So what happened with you and Buffy after Anya and I left ? "" "" Bollocksed everything up . And you ? "" "" Almost got shagged . "" The two burst into shared laughter , which dwindled into chuckles , until the Magic Box was silent . Giles spoke again . "" What are you writing ? "" Spike pushed the notebook across the table . Giles adjusted his glasses and read through the page , then flipped back a page or two more . "" This is very good . Very clear , detailed . "" "" I started keeping records on her fights after you left . Well , as many as I knew about . Got the rest back at the crypt . "" "" The Watcher's Council would be interested in these . "" Spike snorted . Yeah , he was sure the Council of Wankers would just love a vampire's field reports . "" I appreciate the praise , Rupes . But I think they 'd prefer an actual Watcher's comments , yeah ? And now that you 're back -- "" "" Sunnydale 's not my home any more . "" The words fell into a hush . Spike thought Giles had rather surprised himself with them . "" I 'm still connected here , still tied . I wo n't cut myself off again , as I did this past year . But I do n't live here . "" "" Y ' know , I felt like that in London . "" Giles raised his eyebrows , and Spike shrugged . "" I love the old girl , I really do . Have a favourite spot , in fact : nighttime , obviously , on the terrace of Somerset House , overlooking the river . The weight of the stone behind me , the sound of traffic and water below , the lights on the South Bank opposite . Time passes sweetly there . "" He picked up his glass again , swirled the brandy around the bowl . Giles did the same , meditatively . "" But Sunnyhell is where my heart is . "" The bell of the door jangled again , and Buffy came in . Spike nodded across the table . "" As you see . "" Giles drained his glass , then stood . "" I 've still got the car , Spike . "" He walked to the door , then gave Buffy a hug . She clung to him for a moment , then they let each other go . He smiled down at her . "" Do n't let Spike bollocks it up again . And do n't you either , my dear . "" And he left them alone . Spike was thankful he did n't have to breathe , because he was n't sure he could . Buffy hesitated , her eyes on the floor , then she came to him . Not all the way , though ; she hovered just out of reach . "" You were n't at the crypt . "" "" No. "" "" I was afraid you were gone . "" "" Again , no . Just came back , did n't I. "" She nodded . And , with a sudden swirl of air , she sat on his lap . He crushed his lips to her hair -- God , he loved her hair -- and waited . She wound her fingers through his , and said with a rush , "" The thing I forgot tonight ? When you told me ? "" He tightened his grip . "" Change is n't always a bad thing . "" And her mouth was on his . *** Giles stood in the shadows of the alley besides the DeSoto , jingling his keys . Good to know that someone would be happy tonight , even if once again it would n't be Rupert Giles . He was bloody tired of being left out , but there it was . He wished it was n't . "" Rupert . "" He turned to see Anya standing in the moonlight , just outside the alley . She took one step toward him , then another . "" I had to see D ' Hoffryn . Because I 'm not sure I want to be human again , what with all the pain and confusion and the dying , but I know I want to be with you . So I had to check with D ' Hoffryn , to see if I could quit but not actually quit , if you see what I mean -- "" He did n't remember moving , but he was there and she was in his arms . He fisted one hand in her hair , thrust a knee between her thighs , kissed her as deeply as he had dreamed about in those long and lonely months . Then he swung her around , maneuvered her . And it was Ripper's voice that came out of his mouth : "" We 'll bloody talk about this later . "" "" Oh , Rupie , "" she moaned as he lowered her to the bonnet of the car . *** For the moment as giddy as the girl she had been when he first met her , Buffy swung Spike's hand . He closed the Magic Box door behind them , and she pulled him into the moonlight . "" I guess I have n't been the brightest star tonight in the now-safely-Toller-free sky , have I. "" "" You get no argument from me . "" She thwapped him on the shoulder , then snuggled close as they started to walk . "" I do have to check on Dawnie and Willow , but then -- "" she smiled at him -- "" let 's see if we can manage not to break any furniture . "" His lips trailed down her neck and further , then she pushed his head away and put a finger to his open mouth . "" Do you hear something ? "" From the alley opposite came the sound of a muffled thud , thud against metal , then mingled , synchronized gasps . "" No , I do n't hear a damned thing . Walk with me , love , walk with me . "" She rolled her eyes but followed as he pulled her more quickly down the street . He smiled at her , thinking , Tosser 's going to pay if he makes any dents ."	Prose/Lyrical
1588	"The sun shines brightly during the long days of summer , motivating many to get outside to play and soak up the rays . Unfortunately , those who venture outdoors are often plagued with sunburn . Sunburned skin is red and painful . It may be warm to the touch . Blisters and swelling may develop . In their article , "" Sunburn : Symptoms , "" the Mayo Clinic advises , "" See your doctor if the sunburn is blistering and covers ... Read entire article "" Sunscreen is a necessity , especially for those who spend hours per day in the sun . Swimmers , boaters , cyclists – even construction workers – need protection from the sun's harmful rays . UVA radiation can cause tanning , but it also causes premature aging and wrinkling of the skin . UVB radiation is useful in small doses because it stimulates the body to produce vitamin D3 ; however , this type of radiation also causes sunburn . Since ... Read entire article "" The advice is hard to miss . We see and hear it everywhere , from television talk shows to magazines , from doctors' offices to skin cancer survivors : wear sunscreen . The intention is good , and the advice even makes sense . After all , the sun is a prominent source of radiation , and radiation causes skin cancer , right ? It makes sense that we should all wear sunscreen to block the sun's harmful rays . . ... Read entire article "" The sudden appearance of purplish-red spots forming lines on the skin can be a mind-boggling experience . It may look like a rash , but it is not . Nothing more than a dull ache may accompany this mark and it may heal without consequence ; but it could be a sign of something quite serious . Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart . The arteries branch into smaller arteries , and eventually into capillaries , where oxygen and ... Read entire article "" Acne is an annoying and sometimes painful condition that afflicts many . It has many causes , including increased levels of dead skin cells , which is a common cause . If it is the cause , are expensive medications and lotions necessary ? Acne Treatment Products People turn to various medications such as benzoyl peroxide , the key ingredient in popular medications such as Proactiv and Clearsil , or salicylic acid that is used in products such as Olay and Noxzema . ... Read entire article "" Outdoor enthusiasts know to protect themselves from contact with poison ivy and other similar plants such as poison sumac . For many , brushing against these plants will lead to red , irritated , bumpy , itchy skin . There are many misconceptions about poison ivy . Contact Dermatitis Commonly referred to as poison ivy or poison sumac rash , contact dermatitis is skin irritation caused by direct contact with certain substances , including certain kinds of soap and jewelry . If the irritation is due to ... Read entire article """	Information/Explanation
821	This course will provide you with a theoretical understanding of chemotherapy as well as practical skills to enable you to assess , plan , implement and evaluate appropriate care for patients undergoing chemotherapy treatment . Topics covered include : Physiological impact and action of cytotoxic drugs Preparation and administration of cytotoxic drugs to patients in compliance with local and national policy Short and long-term effects of chemotherapy treatment Chemotherapy - the patient's perspective Strategies to prevent , reduce and manage treatment side-effects Accountability risk-management and the nurse's responsibilities in the care of the patient and carer . Upon successful completion of this module students will be awarded 20 credits at level 5 . Details DATE ( S ) : Course One : 16 , 17 , 23 , 24 October and 13 , 14 November 2006 , Course Two : 23 January and 6 , 20 February and 6 , 20 March 2007	Information/Explanation
792	Different types of change processes . Type III curve highlights the effects change propagation on project schedules Performing engineering changes is an essential part of design . Yet seemingly harmless alterations to components may have undesired effects in a product , necessitating the need for changes to other parts of the product . The implications of change propagation can be very severe as they may lead to delays in schedules as well as placing excessive strain on resources . Motivation Literature on engineering change management shows that design engineers need support with assessing the impact of proposed changes . Findings from previous case studies on engineering change processes also suggests that there are potential benefits in using hierarchically decomposable product models to assess the impact of change . Objectives To develop an in-depth understanding of change propagation phenomena To highlight factors which contribute to change propagation in products To investigate suitability of hierarchical product models to support engineering change impact analysis To develop methods for assessing the impact of engineering changes To assess the use of such methods in predicting changes in industry Method An extensive literature review was carried out in conjunction with an in-depth analysis of data collected during case studies on engineering change processes in three UK companies . Based on the understanding gained , simple product models are used to analyse hypothetical change scenarios . Findings The literature review showed that strong coupling between component pairs often forces changes to propagate between them . Also , components may have strong dependencies between them even though they may not interact directly . These couplings are not always obvious due to the complex nature of component interactions . Early results suggests that hierarchical products models may be suitable for modelling such complex interactions to enable effective product change impact analysis . Acknowledgements Support for this project was provided by EPSRC . Key References ARIYO , O.O. , ' A multilevel product model to support engineering change management ' , CUED , PhD interim report . ARIYO , O.O. , ECKERT , C.M. and CLARKSON , P.J. ( 2004 ) ' Tolerance margins as constraining factors of changes in complex products ' in 5th Integrated Product Development Workshop , IPD 2004 , Magdeburg , Germany , ( CD-ROM ) .	Information/Explanation
831	Who provides palliative care ? Palliative care is provided by GPs , district nurses , hospital doctors and nurses as part of their normal care of patients . They can arrange access to specialist palliative care for those with more complex problems . Specialist Palliative Care Services : Hospices and NHS Specialist Palliative Care Units provide in-patient , day-care and home-care services staffed by a team whose specialist training enables them to help people with particularly complex problems . Hospitals may have a specialist palliative care team or palliative care support nurse . Macmillan nurses provide advice and support both to hospitals and to people at home . Marie Curie community nurses provide nursing care to patients at home . The following pages have more information on particular services around Scotland . All Palliative Care Services by Map / NHS Board Region	Instruction
963	If you are a current advertiser with us but ca n't find your listing on our site , please try our KEYWORD search . Firstly , make sure you select which section of the site you wish to search in . Then insert one of the following - your advert ID code ( without the letter prefix ) , your name , address , phone number or your email - then click on the ' Search ' button to look for your listing ( s ) .	Instruction
394	IDS International HR Due Diligence Checklist Assessing risk and finding value in mergers and acquisitions Over the past decade this publication has been used by hundreds of companies . Now a new edition is available - updated , expanded and enhanced in the light of users' experience . Of all business situations , the most rife with uncertainty and risk is when two organisations are moving towards each other with merger - or acquisition - in mind . All too often , the human aspects of mergers are ignored until late in the process . And yet the chance of success or failure frequently hinges on people . Increasingly , due diligence assessments are being extended to take fuller account of HR . Since its launch a decade ago , many hundreds of companies have used the IDS International HR Due Diligence Checklist to help them in this process . Now there is a new edition of the checklist , updated and revised in conjunction with consultants Cornwell Consulting . It provides a practical intelligence-gathering tool to help HR specialists get to grips with the challenge of conducting broad-based HR due diligence . How does it work ? The publication contains a set of checklist , ordered to ensure that examination of a target company begins by looking at deal fundamentals , and access to data , followed by the cultural and business context . It then follows the logic of the employment contract from recruitment to termination . The publication aims to ensure that you do not leave any important - and potentially costly - aspect of HR policy unexplored . What 's in the checklist ? Work through a series of structured checklists , either by desk research or local interviews , to answer questions covering all the key areas of concern , including : recruitment contracts of employment training and development pay , pensions and benefits performance and quality management working time equal treatment representation and communication security , safety and other liabilities termination retirement and pensions View the contents list in PDF Who uses it ? With over 100 pages of questions , the checklist provides a structured approach for HR professionals . It offers help for those : involved in exercising due diligence as part of an overseas - or domestic - acquisition undertaking a strategic review of personnel policies in another country or entering international HR management for the first time , using the checklist as an orientation tool . Buying your copy You can purchase a copy of the IDS International HR Due Diligence Checklist for £ 148 + £ 25.90 VAT ( IDS Members can purchase a copy for £ 108 + £ 18 . 90VAT ) + £ 5 postage ( £ 10 for overseas ) . Order your copy online or call IDS Customer Services on 020 7324 2599 . Search the IDS website Advanced search Site map Buy your copy You can purchase a copy of the IDS International HR Due Diligence Checklist for £ 148 + £ 25.90 VAT ( IDS Members can purchase a copy for £ 108 + £ 18 . 90VAT ) + £ 5 postage ( £ 10 for overseas ) . Order your copy online I would prefer to telephone or fax my order	Promotion
143	"The value of nothing : out of nothing comes something . That was an essay I wrote when I was 11 years old and I got a B + . ( Laughter ) What I 'm going to talk about : nothing out of something , and how we create . And I 'm gonna try and do that within the 18-minute time span that we were told to stay within , and to follow the TED commandments : that is , actually , something that creates a near-death experience , but near-death is good for creativity . ( Laughter ) OK . So , I also want to explain , because Dave Eggers said he was going to heckle me if I said anything that was a lie , or not true to universal creativity . And I 've done it this way for half the audience , who is scientific . When I say we , I do n't mean you , necessarily ; I mean me , and my right brain , my left brain , and the one that 's in between that is the censor and tells me what I 'm saying is wrong . And I 'm going do that also by looking at what I think is part of my creative process , which includes a number of things that happened , actually -- the nothing started even earlier than the moment in which I 'm creating something new . And that includes nature , and nurture , and what I refer to as nightmares . Now in the nature area , we look at whether or not we are innately equipped with something , perhaps in our brains , some abnormal chromosome that causes this muse-like effect . And some people would say that we 're born with it in some other means , and others , like my mother , would say that I get my material from past lives . Some people would also say that creativity may be a function of some other neurological quirk -- van Gogh syndrome -- that you have a little bit of , you know , psychosis , or depression . I do have to say , somebody -- I read recently that van Gogh was n ' t really necessarily psychotic , that he might have had temporal lobe seizures , and that might have caused his spurt of creativity , and I do n't -- I suppose it does something in some part of your brain . And I will mention that I actually developed temporal lobe seizures a number of years ago , but it was during the time I was writing my last book , and some people say that book is quite different . I think that part of it also begins with a sense of identity crisis : you know , who am I , why am I this particular person , why am I not black like everybody else ? And sometimes you 're equipped with skills , but they may not be the kind of skills that enable creativity . I used to draw . I thought I would be an artist . And I had a miniature poodle . And it was n ' t bad , but it was n ' t really creative . Because all I could really do was represent in a very one-on-one way . And I have a sense that I probably copied this from a book . And then I also was n ' t really shining in a certain area that I wanted to be , and you know , you look at those scores , and it was n ' t bad , but it was not certainly predictive that I would one day make my living out of the artful arrangement of words . Also , one of the principles of creativity is to have a little childhood trauma . And I had the usual kind that I think a lot of people had , and that is that , you know , I had expectations placed on me . That figure right there , by the way , figure right there was a toy given to me when I was but nine years old , and it was to help me become a doctor from a very early age . I have some ones that were long lasting : from the age of five to 15 , this was supposed to be my side occupation , and it led to a sense of failure . But actually there was something quite real in my life that happened when I was about 14 . And it was discovered that my brother , in 1967 , and then my father , six months later , had brain tumors . And my mother believed that something had gone wrong , and she was gonna find out what it was . And she was gonna fix it . My father was a Baptist minister , and he believed in miracles , and that God's will would take care of that . But of course , they ended up dying , six months apart . And after that , my mother believed that it was fate , or curses -- she went looking through all the reasons in the universe why this would have happened . Everything except randomness . She did not believe in randomness . There was a reason for everything . And one of the reasons , she thought , was that her mother , who had died when she was very young , was angry at her . And so I had this notion of death all around me because my mother also believed that I would be next , and she would be next And when you are faced with the prospect of death very soon , you begin to think very much about everything . You become very creative , in a survival sense . And this , then , led to my big questions . And they 're the same ones that I have today . And they are : Why do things happen , and how do things happen ? And the one my mother asked : How do I make things happen ? It 's a wonderful way to look at these questions , when you write a story . Because after all , in that framework , between page one and 300 , you have to answer this question of why things happen , how things happen , in what order they happen . What are the influences ? How do I , as the narrator , as the writer , also influence that ? And it 's also one that I think many of our scientists have been asking . It 's a kind of cosmology , and I have to develop a cosmology of my own universe , as the creator of that universe . And you see , there 's a lot of back and forth in trying to make that happen , trying to figure it out -- years and years , oftentimes . So when I look at creativity , I also think that it is this sense or this inability to repress my looking at associations in practically anything in life . And I got a lot of them during what 's been going on throughout this conference , almost everything that 's been going on . And so I 'm going to use , as the metaphor , this association : quantum mechanics , which I really do n't understand , but I 'm still gonna use it as the process for explaining how it is the metaphor . So in quantum mechanics , of course , you have dark energy and dark matter . And it 's the same thing in looking at these questions of how things happen . There 's a lot of unknown , and you often do n't know what it is except by its absence . But when you make those associations , you want them to come together in a kind of synergy in the story , and what you 're finding is what matters . The meaning . And that 's what I look for in my work , a personal meaning . There is also the uncertainty principle , which is part of quantum mechanics , as I understand it . ( Laughter ) And this happens constantly in the writing . And there 's the terrible and dreaded observer effect , in which you 're looking for something , and you know , things are happening simultaneously , and you 're looking at it in a different way , and you 're trying to really look for the about-ness . Or what is this story about . And if you try too hard , then you will only write the about . You wo n ' t discover anything . And what you were supposed to find , what you hoped to find , in some serendipitous way , is no longer there . Now , I do n't want to ignore the other side of what happens in our universe , like many of our scientists have . And so I am going to just throw in string theory here , and just say that creative people are multi-dimensional , and there are eleven levels , I think , of anxiety . ( Laughter ) And they all operate at the same time . There is also a big question of ambiguity . And I would link that to something called the cosmological constant . And you do n't know what is operating , but something is operating there . And ambiguity , to me , is very uncomfortable in my life , and I have it . Moral ambiguity . It is constantly there . And just as an example , this is one that recently came to me . It was something I read in an editorial by a woman who was talking about the war in Iraq . And she said , "" Save a man from drowning , you are responsible to him for life . "" A very famous Chinese saying , she said . And that means because we went into Iraq , we should stay there until things were solved . You know , maybe even 100 years . So there was another one that I came across , and it 's "" saving fish from drowning . "" And it 's what Buddhist fishermen say , because they 're not supposed to kill anything . And they also have to make a living , and people need to be fed . So their way of rationalizing that is they are saving the fish from drowning , and unfortunately in the process the fish die . Now what 's encapsulated in both these drowning metaphors -- actually , one of them is my mother's interpretation , and it is a famous Chinese saying because she said it to me : "" Save a man from drowning , you are responsible to him for life . "" And it was a warning -- do n't get involved in other people's business , or you 're going to get stuck . OK . I think if somebody really was drowning , she 'd save them . But both of these sayings , saving a fish from drowning , or saving a man from drowning , to me they had to do with intentions . And all of us in life , when we see a situation , we have a response . And then we have intentions . There 's an ambiguity of what that should be that we should do , and then we do something . And the results of that may not match what our intentions had been . Maybe things go wrong . And so , after that , what are our responsibilities ? What are we supposed to do ? Do we stay in for life , or do we do something else and justify and say , well , my intentions were good , and therefore I can not be held responsible for all of it ? That is the ambiguity in my life that really disturbed me , and led me to write a book called Saving Fish From Drowning . I saw examples of that , once I identified this question . It was all over the place . I got these hints everywhere . And then , in a way , I knew that they had always been there . And then writing , that 's what happens . I get these hints , these clues , and I realize that they 've been obvious , and yet they have not been . And what I need , in effect , is a focus . And when I have the question , it is a focus . And all these things that seem to be flotsam and jetsam in life actually go through that question , and what happens is those particular things become relevant . And it seems like it 's happening all the time . You think there 's a sort of coincidence going on , a serendipity , in which you 're getting all this help from the universe . And it may also be explained that now you have a focus . And you are noticing it more often . But you apply this . You begin to look at things having to do with your tensions . Your brother , who 's fallen in trouble , do you take care of him ? Why or why not ? It may be something that is perhaps more serious -- as I said , human rights in Burma . I was thinking that I should n ' t go because somebody said if I did , it would show that I approved of the military regime there . And then after a while , I had to ask myself , "" Why do we take on knowledge , why do we take on assumptions that other people have given us ? "" And it was the same thing that I felt when I was growing up , and was hearing these rules of moral conduct from my father , who was a Baptist minister . So I decided that I would go to Burma for my own intentions , and still did n't know that if I went there , what the result of that would be if I wrote a book -- and I just would have to face that later , when the time came . We are all concerned with things that we see in the world that we are aware of . We come to this point and say , what do I as an individual do ? Not all of us can go to Africa , or work at hospitals , so what do we do if we have this moral response , this feeling ? Also , I think one of the biggest things we are all looking at , and we talked about today , is genocide . This leads to this question , when I look at all these things that are morally ambiguous and uncomfortable , and I consider what my intentions should be , I realize it goes back to this identity question that I had when I was a child -- and why am I here , and what is the meaning of my life , and what is my place in the universe ? It seems so obvious , and yet it is not . We all hate moral ambiguity in some sense , and yet it is also absolutely necessary . In writing a story , it is the place where I begin . Sometimes I get help from the universe , it seems . My mother would say it was the ghost of my grandmother from the very first book , because it seemed I knew things I was not supposed to know . Instead of writing that the grandmother died accidentally , from an overdose of opium while having too much of a good time , I actually put down in the story that the woman killed herself , and that actually was the way it happened . And my mother decided that that information must have come from my grandmother . There are also things , quite uncanny , which bring me information that will help me in the writing of the book . In this case , I was writing a story that included some kind of detail , period of history , a certain location . And I needed to find something historically that would match that . And I took down this book , and I -- first page that I flipped it to was exactly the setting , and the time period . And the kind of character I needed was the Taiping rebellion , happening in the area near Guilin , outside of that , and a character who thought he was the son of God . You wonder , are these things random chance ? Well , what is random ? What is chance ? What is luck ? What are things that you get from the universe that you ca n ' t really explain ? And that goes into the story too . These are the things I constantly think about from day to day . Especially when good things happen , and in particular , when bad things happen . But I do think there 's a kind of serendipity , and I do want to know what those elements are , so I can thank them , and also try to find them in my life . Because , again , I think that when I am aware of them , more of them happen . Another chance encounter is when I went to a place -- I just was with some friends , and we drove randomly to a different place , and we ended up in this non-tourist location , a beautiful village , pristine . And we walked three valleys beyond , and the third valley , there was something quite mysterious and ominous , a discomfort I felt . And then I knew that had to be setting of my book . And in writing one of the scenes , it happened in that third valley . For some reason I wrote about cairns -- stacks of rocks -- that a man was building . And I did n't know exactly why I had it , but it was so vivid . I got stuck , and a friend , when she asked if I would go for a walk with her dogs , that I said , sure . And about 45 minutes later , walking along the beach , I came across this . And it was a man , a Chinese man , and he was stacking these things , not with glue , not with anything . And I asked him how is it possible to do this ? And he said , well , I guess with everything in life , there 's a place of balance . And this was exactly the meaning of my story at that point . I had so many examples -- I have so many instances like this when I 'm writing a story , and I can not explain it . Is it because I had the filter that I have such a strong coincidence in writing about these things ? Or is it a kind of serendipity that we can not explain , like the cosmological constant ? A big thing that I also think about is accidents . And as I said , my mother did not believe in randomness . What is the nature of accidents ? And how are we going to assign what the responsibility and the causes are , outside of a court of law ? I was able to see that in a firsthand way , when I went to beautiful Dong village , in Guizhou , the poorest province of China . And I saw this beautiful place . I knew I wanted to come back . And I had a chance to do that when National Geographic asked me if I wanted to write anything about China . And I said yes , about this village of Singing people , Singing minority . And they agreed , and between the time I saw this place and the next time I went , there was a terrible accident . A man , an old man , fell asleep , and his quilt dropped in a pan of fire that kept him warm . 60 homes were destroyed , and 40 were damaged . Responsibility was assigned to the family . The man's sons were banished to live three kilometers away , in a cow shed . And of course , as Westerners , we say , "" Well , it was an accident . That 's not fair . It 's the son , not the father . "" And when I go on a story , I have to let go of those kinds of beliefs . It takes a while , but I have to let go of them and just go there , and be there . And so I was there on three occasions , different seasons . And I began to sense something different about the history and what had happened before , and the nature of life in a very poor village , and what you find as your joys , and your rituals , your traditions , your links with other families . And I saw how this had a kind of justice in its responsibility . I was able to find out also about the ceremony that they were using , a ceremony they had n ' t used in about 29 years . And it was to send some men -- a Feng Shui master sent men down to the underworld on ghost horses . Now you , as Westerners , and I , as Westerners , would say well , that 's superstition . But after being there for a while , and seeing the amazing things that happened , you begin to wonder whose beliefs are those that are in operation in the world , determining how things happen . So I remained with them , and the more I wrote that story , the more I got in to those beliefs , and I think that 's important for me -- to take on the beliefs , because that is where the story is real , and that is where I 'm gonna find the answers to how I feel about certain questions that I have in life . Years go by , of course , and the writing , it does n ' t happen instantly , as I 'm trying to convey it to you here at TED . The book comes and it goes . When it arrives , it is no longer my book . It is in the hands of readers , and they interpret it differently . But I go back to this question of , how do I create something out of nothing ? And how do I create my own life ? And I think it is by questioning , and saying to myself that there are no absolute truths . I believe in specifics , the specifics of story , and the past , the specifics of that past , and what is happening in the story at that point . I also believe that in thinking about things , my thinking about luck , and fate , and coincidences and accidents , God's will , and the synchrony of mysterious forces , I will come to some notion of what that is , how we create . I have to think of my role . Where I am in the universe , and did somebody intend for me to be that way , or is it just something I came up with ? And I also can find that by imagining fully , and becoming what is imagined , and yet is in that real world , the fictional world . And that is how I find particles of truth , not the absolute truth , or the whole truth . And they have to be in all possibilities , including those I never considered before . So there are never complete answers . Or rather , if there is an answer , it is to remind myself that there is uncertainty in everything , and that is good . Because then I will discover something new . And if there is a partial answer , a more complete answer from me , it is to simply imagine . And to imagine is to put myself in that story , until there was only -- there is a transparency between me and the story I am creating . And that 's how I 've discovered that if I feel what is in the story -- in one story -- then I come the closest , I think , to knowing what compassion is , to feeling that compassion . Because for everything , in that question of how things happen , it has to do with the feeling . I have to become the story in order to understand a lot of that . We 've come to the end of the talk , and I will reveal what is in the bag , and it is the muse , and it is the things that transform in our lives , that are wonderful and stay with us . There she is . Thank you very much ! ( Applause ) </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
477	Every competition obviously needs some sets of rules . These rules are n ' t meant to give some personal advantage to me or my company but some things must be clear beforehand . 1 . Entrants can make any race they choose ( not neccessarily a current Hasslefree race , be creative ) , giving it any equipment they like in any pose they desire ..... so long as it 's 28mm scale ( not neccessarily 28mm tall ) castable and has a basing tag that fits in to a 30mm or 40mm round edged base ( as used by Warmachine and Dark Age ) . The sculpt should ideally be made of an epoxy suitable for vulcanising like green stuff . 2 . Using pieces of existing Hasslefree Miniatures is not allowed , other than those from heads and weapon sprues ( head sprues will be available in September ) . 3 . Secrecy is not an issue . You can put your WIPs all over the net if you like , so long as you do n't mind people nicking your ideas . 4 . We will create categories depending on the entries we receive . Initial judging will be by public vote to determine the top entries . Sally and I and a panel of judges ( who will not be allowed to vote for any entries they make ) will then choose the over all winner . 5 . The start date is today , Monday the 15th of August . Since we do n't want to panic anybody there 's no real rush to get your entries completed , the date for all entries to be with me is Jen's Birthday , December 18th . If it 's still the 18th of December anywhere in the world you can email me your entry . Your pictures need to be sent to kevinjameswhite @ totalise . c o . u k . Please send JPEG files compressed to ' best ' quality ( 80-90 % ) and try to make sure your pics are no larger than 150Kb each . 6 . The practicality of making the miniature will be judged alongside its degree of craftsmanship . If it 's a bugger to cast or if I 'm going to have to chop it up and put bits on sprues it might lose a few points . 7 . Results will be posted on our 2nd anniversary , 7th of January 2006 . 8 . The winner will receive a prize and a small amount of fame / notoriety . There is a prize of £ 175 in cold hard cash . I will also make sure that the winner is recognised as the sculptor of the piece where at all possible and also sculpt their name on the back of the basing tag . 9 . Entries will need to be original works of art - no copyrighted ideas please , other than recognised Hasslefree IP . Remember a 3D copy of a 2D original is still a violation of copyright , unless the original art is in the public domain or you have received ( written ) permission from the artist . 10 . Age Limit . Since the aim is to cast and sell these figures , contestants must be 18 years or older . If the contestant is under 18 , he or she must be able to produce written parental consent upon demand . 11 . Rule Amendments . Rules are subject to change and / or clarifications without notice , as per the decision of Kev and Sally . Entry categories may be subject to alteration depending on the level of response for each and existing categories may be split or combined . Final category placement of all entries shall be determined by the judges . 12 . Should the number and quality of submissions exceed expectations , we reserve the right to choose exclusively to purchase entries that do n't receive first place for a fee to be agreed upon between us and the Sculptor on an individual basis . No runners up prize offer will be greater than £ 175 and will depend entirely on our finances at the time . In this event all submissions so recognized will be subject to the same conditions as the over all winner . 13 . Should we not be able to agree on a price , the sculptor is free to dispose of the miniature at their discretion unless it contains recognisable components of existing Hasslefree Miniatures or Intellectual Property . Should this be the case , the miniature may not be sold to a party other than Hasslefree Miniatures . 14 . Fair Play . Only original sculpts will be accepted . By entering a figure in this contest you attest on your honour to be it 's creator and holder of all rights to this figure . By doing so you accept all legal consequences that could arise should the figure or the rights to it be part of someone else 's Intellectual Property . Also you will exonerate Hasslefree Miniatures for any legal claims that could result from entering the competition . 15 . Risk Attribution . Hasslefree Miniatures can not take responsibility for winning submissions lost in the mail , the risk lies with the sculptor . The sculptor must be willing to submit his / her sculpt to the mouldmaker's ministrations . As such , he or she should be aware that a lot of pressure will be exerted on the green during the mouldmaking process . A piece of putty will survive this moulding process in direct relationship to the amount of care and skill used to make the original . 16 . Figure Reproduction . As described in the introduction , castings of the winning entries will be sold by Hasslefree Miniatures as part of our HFP range . To this intent , the sculptor agrees to turn over the rights to reproduce , distribute and display the figure exclusively to Hasslefree under the terms and conditions as specified above . The sculptor will receive 10 copies of the mini and he or she may of course use the IP rights of the green and the mini for personal use .	Legal
621	Story behind the picture These are my colour felt tip pencils . I use them every day to make drawings . I keep them in a furry pink pencil case . I keep the case always in my handbag . I like drawing flowers with them . Also I like to use colours to make patterns . I like all the colours , but my favorite is pink . I wanted to take a picture of my colours because maybe they can make somebody else as happy as they make me .	Opinion/Argumentation
974	Problems in paying for care Find out what to do if you have problems paying for your care or questions about how much the council should pay . Talk to your council If you need help to pay for the care you need , ask your council's social services if they can help . How much will the council pay ? What happens if the council wo n't pay ? Sometimes councils have reasons for not paying for people's care . They should explain the reasons to you . At other times , they may not be following government rules . For example , you could be told that you are eligible for financial help , only to be then told that the council does not have enough money to pay for you , or you could be asked to join a waiting list . If this happens , or if there are any others ways you feel that the decision is not fair , you do have the right to question the decision . Contact your council if you are not happy with their decision . Find your local council : get contact details for your council from the DirectGov website . How to complain about your council : what to do if you are not happy with your council's social services .	Instruction
1193	"The Hardest Part About Change is Taking Action BY KATHRYN MOTT I honestly do n't think that anyone out there really strives for mediocrity in every facet of their lives . There are some people that are content with their situation in life , but everyone has something they want to excel in ; something they want to be proud of . Unfortunately , most people do n't have the drive to do something about it . They waste away their time and talents day dreaming of what could be instead of living the life they want . People are constantly taking the easy road in life : it 's less risky , it does n't involve a lot of effort and it 's comfortable . Change requires you to step out of your comfort zone and into the unknown . You have to change yourself , your surroundings even your habits . Everyone has those moments in life where you look at where you are and the things you 've done to get there ; as a result , you 'll either be proud or disappointed . For those of you who have reached the point where you are wondering , "" how did I get here ? "" , there is still hope . Change is difficult . If it were easy , we would all be famous billionaires living in mansions . The fact that it 's hard is what makes change and improvement so great . Improving your life will result in several positive outcomes such as , giving you a better sense of self , making you a better person , mother father , friend , etc. and you 'll find yourself being happier in general . You need to understand that changing yourself for the better wo n't take away challenges in your life – it will just prepare you to be able to face them . If you have tried to change in the past and failed , do n't quit . You can still change and start making a difference in your life . The following tips will get you set on the path to action . When you do these things , you are preparing yourself to do more than just dream about the life you want ; you are getting yourself on the path to achieving it . Use these tips as guidelines to make the changes in your life that you want to see . The first step toward changing is knowing what you want to change and why . Take the time to sit down and write down your goals . Also write down why you want to change ; make this as in-depth as you can because it will be a foundation for you . This is something you will be able to go back to when you are feeling like it 's too hard or you have forgotten why it 's important . Tell people your goals . It can be embarrassing for some people to share with others what 's in their heart ; but it 's necessary . In order to change , you have to be held accountable . Letting someone else know what you are trying to do will ensure that you have someone to answer to . Make sure this person is someone who will continue to encourage you and is n't afraid to ask how things are moving along . Replace bad habits with good ones . Stopping something cold turkey is hard , so it 's best to replace the unwanted habit with something positive . If you have a major addiction , there are other steps you will have to take . If it 's just a bad habit , such as looking at Facebook too much , replace that with something like going for a walk around the block . If you are trying to stick within a budget , play a game with your family instead of going shopping . Find something positive to do that will replace the negative things in your life . Change is not easy , but it 's easier when you have someone to do it with . Find a partner , coach , friend or family member who might be in the same situation as you . If you want to start working out , set up times when the two of you can go exercise together . If you want to get up earlier , call each other in the morning and encourage one another to get up and get moving . Whatever changes you want to make , find a way to include someone else in them . You will be each other 's support , can hold one another accountable for what you do or do n't do . Get rid of distractions . There are things everywhere in our houses , our workplaces , and even our schools that can and will distract us from changing into the kind of people we want to be . Our phones , computers , iPads , etc. are all wonderful tools that we have at our disposal , but they can also hinder us . We spend so much time texting , emailing and checking various social media platforms . That is time that could be used doing something productive . Limit the amount of time you spend on the computer . Set an alarm and when it goes off , you 're done . Turn off the TV . I know so many people who have the TV on in the background while they are trying to get stuff done . I am guilty of this . In the past I would turn on a movie while I was trying to work or clean the house , but every time , I would find myself sitting on the couch watching instead of being up and moving . I decided to listen to audio books instead : that way I do n't have anything visual distracting me from the things I need to get done but I still have something entertaining or educational to listen to . Only say positive things to yourself . When you fail it 's easy to point out everything you did wrong , but that is so discouraging . Instead , say to yourself , "" I can do hard things . "" You have the ability to change , you just have to believe in yourself . Do n't beat yourself down . Serve other people . It 's funny how service works : you go out expecting to help someone else in need and you end up helping yourself . When you serve others , you feel better about yourself , you make a difference in someone's life , and you give back to the community . Recognize the good things you do , no matter how small . Many people might skip this step because it feels arrogant and prideful . IT 'S NOT ! Changing yourself is about evaluating where you are in life , what you 're doing and why you 're doing those things . When you make a change , even if it 's something simple , acknowledge it , do n't brush it off like it does n't mean anything . It means everything ! It means that you 're actually doing it , you 're changing . Reading is good for the soul ( and your mind ) , butway too many people get caught in the trap of consistently reading and never taking action on anything they read : How to Actually Take Action on All That Reading"	Instruction
902	"Kingdom Hearts - Two Destinies are One Chapter 2 : Lost Heart "" Come on Sora , let 's take the raft , just the two of us ! Why did I say I was kidding . Ugh , I ca n't beleive myself . Stupid , Kairi , stupid , stupid , Stupid ! "" Kairi said to herself . She stumbled out of bed , and sat on the window bed . She stared at the stars that had once shot up into the sky when the island recovered . "" All I ever wanted was him . "" she said to herself . She gazed at the stars , and dreamt about Sora , and Riku , how they 'd all be together again . "" Psst !! "" Kairi looked down to the backyard . "" Psst ! Kat ! "" whispered Tidus . "" Tidus ? What are you doing ?!? It 's 1 : 00 a . m ! "" Kairi said . "" I just had to see you Kat . "" he admitted . "" What ?!? Tidus , you can see me tomorrow . "" she said . "" Well , you told me you 'd go to the party with me ! You were a no show ! "" said Tidus . "" Oh no ...... I 'm so sorry Tidus , I completely forgot . "" Kairi said . "" Bet you would n't have forgotten Sora ..... "" He said . He looked at her , then walked away . "" No , Tidus , that 's not it at all . Please , do n't leave . "" Kairi begged . "" It 's to late for that ........ Kairi . "" he snapped . He jumped off of the small cliff , and into the water . Kairi could n't beleive he called her by her name . He always called her Kat . But , she knew he was hurt if he actually called her Kairi . "" He was all I had left of a friend . He does n't understand how badly I need him now . Stupid Kairi , stupid , stupid .... "" she said to herself . She went to her bed , and lay down . She fell asleep with thoughts of Tidus . "" You 're friend , no , no .... um , your best friend ... no ! "" said Sora . "" What is it you 're writing there Sora ? "" asked Goofy . "" A letter to Kairi . "" said Sora . "" Well how ya gonna get it there ? "" smirked Donald . "" For your information Mr. Rudeness , I had a visit with Genie yesterday , and he happens to be a very good mailman . "" said Sora . "" Oh , phooey . He 's a Genie , of course he 's good at doin that . But hey , How 'd he get here ?!? "" asked Donald . "" He 's a Genie , you do n't think he can pass walls of Worlds ? "" asked Sora . "" Well , hey buddy ! Why are ya writing Kairi , when you can see her ! Just call Genie , or how ever you got him here , and ask him to take you back to Density Islands . "" said Goofy . "" Destiny . "" corrected Donald . "" Well , that 's ridiculous Goofy . We need him here . "" protested Donald . "" Well Gorsh Donald , we do n't need him when we are in town . We can relax , and so can he , at Density . "" explained Goofy . "" DESTINY , wah-ah-ah-ah-ah ! "" Donald said in rage . "" Please Donald , just a day or two . I promise , I will come back . I will . I have to get Riku , remember ? "" pleaded Sora . "" Oh , fine , ok . But , wait till we get to Slazare Village . "" said Donald . "" Thanks , it means alot . "" said Sora . Kairi sat up in her bed , welcoming the new day . She paused . "" Tidus . "" she thought . She went to her closet , grabbed her skirt and tank-top , and got dressed . She went downstairs , grabbed a piece of toast , and dashed out the door . She scanned the area for Tidus . She saw Wakka on the beach with his blitz-ball , practicing . "" Wakka , where 's Tidus ? "" asked Kairi . "" Uh , I do n't really know . Got a big tournament comin up man , going to go ? "" asked Wakka . "" Sure , but I have to find Tidus . "" said Kairi . "" Sorry , did you check the beach , yah ? "" asked Wakka . "" I will check there , thanks Wakka . "" she said . She dashed to the beach . "" Tidus ? Tidus ! Where are you ? "" shouted Kairi . Selphie stood up . "" Oh , got a new boyfriend do we ? "" she giggled . "" Not funny Selphie , I need to find him , because ........ because he 's my friend ! "" Kairi said . "" Well , excuse me ! Attitude . Well , nobody has seen him all day . "" she said . Kairi said "" Thanks anyways . "" She walked back up to the waterfall , and sat on a boulder . "" Being friends with him is no big secret . "" she said to herself . "" Secret . "" she thought . The secret place ! That 's where he was . Kairi made her way to the back of the waterfall . She crawled under the bushes , and went through the opening . She finally could stand up . She walked down the long tunnel , and heard a voice . "" Do you understand ? Do I make myself clear . "" a mysterious voice said . "" No ! Just let me go , please ! "" begged Tidus . "" Ugh , you petty boy , one who knows nothing can understand nothing . "" it said . "" Oh no . "" thought Kairi . She ran through the tunnel , screaming . "" Leave him alone ! "" she yelled . She stopped in her tracks . It was him , in his dark cloak , holding Tidus by the neck . "" What are you doing here , are n't you busy with something ? "" asked Tidus . "" Tidus , I 'm so sorry , please , just forgive me ! "" Kairi pleaded , tears streaming down her face . "" Foolish children . Life is darkness , but you will never understand . Let me show you . "" I for-cak-cak .... "" Tidus said . "" Tidus ! "" shouted Kairi . His face turned pale , he was struggling for air . "" Darkness ? You never understood . ! "" Kairi said . She quickly hopped up the side of the wall . "" I will show you the light ! "" she said . She moved to small pebbles blocking the sunlight . It pierced through the dark cave . The thing loosened it 's grip . Tidus gasped . "" Child ! That does n't hurt me , you think that does anything to me ? It just cought me by surprise ! "" he chuckled . "" No , No ! Do n't you kill him ! "" yelled Kairi . She leaped from the wall , and jumped onto the cloaked figure , knocking it to the ground . Tidus jumped up . "" Run Tidus ! Go ! "" pleaded Kairi . "" I ca n't leave you here Kat . "" said Tidus . Kairi stared at the old portal behind her . She looked at the scribbles on the wall where her and Sora wrote . She pressed her hand against it , and let the all of the heart-filled energy flow inside of her . She quickly touched the portal . It opened slowly . "" You will be sent back to where you came from ! "" she screamed . She jumped from under his grasp , and shoved him into the portal . "" Noooo ! I ca n't ... let . GOOOOO ! "" he screamed as he was sucked into the vortex . Kairi felt her feet sliding out from under her . She ran from it , but it was jsut to strong . "" Kat ! "" Tidus yelled . He grabbed her hand and pulled her back towards him . He held onto a crevese in a boulder . "" Hang on ! "" he said . "" I ca n't Tidus ! I ca n't ! Let me go ! "" she said . "" No ! I wo n't ! "" he shouted . Suddenly , the portal slowly closed , and the force lowered , until finally Tidus fell , and Kairi rolled onto him . "" Kat , you 're safe . "" Tidus said , releived . Kairi looked at his hand . It was bloody and blistered . "" Why did n't you let me go ! You could 've died , but instead you rescued me , and hurt you 're hand by holding on ! Why Tidus ? "" asked Kairi . "" Because . I coul n't let you go , how would I have felt if you were n't around ! I 'd feel the same way you did when Sora left . "" he explained . She looked into his eyes , he had those deep blue eyes like Sora 's that you could gaze into forever . He had that soft skin , and smile . He was built like Sora , and , the same age as Sora . No wonder she was friends with Tidus . "" Forgive me "" said Kairi , hugging Tidus . "" How could I not . "" he said . "" Wow . This place is n't a village , it 's a city ! "" exclaimed Sora . They walked into the town , hoping to find a hotel . They finally came accross one . "" The Grand Royal Kin . "" said Goofy . "" Inn . "" corrected Donald . They walked inside . "" Leon ! "" shouted Sora . He ran over to him . "" Sora ? What are you doing here ? "" he asked . "" Searching for Riku . "" said Sora . "" Well , I ca n't stay . I have to go back to Hollow Bastion . It 's fully restored now . It 's the only portal that 's open from here . Good to see you again Sora . Come visit me anytime . "" said Leon . "" I will . "" said Sora . Leon grabbed his suitcase , and stepped into the orange blaze . He disappeared . They walked to the front desk . "" The Grand Royal Inn , how may I help you ? "" asked the clerk . "" Bedroom Suite . We need three beds . "" said Donald . "" That can be arranged . It 's .... $ 75 . 00 cash . "" she said sweetly . "" What ?!? Oh alright , I need to relax anyways . "" said Donald , he handed her the money . And she gave him a key . "" Room 267 . "" she said . When they arrived at the room , Sora sat on the plush bed . He took out a piece of gold metal from his pocket . "" What 's that Sora ? "" asked Goofy . "" It 's a magic lamp shard . "" he said . He rubbed it lightly , and Genie apeared . "" Hey there Sora ? What do you need ? "" he asked in a cheerful mood . "" I need you to send me to Destiny Islands for a few days . A vacation type thing . "" Sora explained . "" I ca n't go with you Sora . "" he said . "" Why ? "" he asked . "" Against Genie policy , you must go by yourself . "" Genie said . "" How can I do that ? "" asked Sora . Genie reached into his pocket , and pulled out a small leather pouch . He handed it to Sora . "" It 's magic Pixie dust . You just throw it into the sir , and say "" Ala-maz "" . Sounds simple , right ? "" asked Genie . "" Sure . "" said Sora . "" It 's not . This is your only bag . Do n't waste it , because if you do , you will stay at Destiny Islands forever . Be careful , and aware of the consequences . "" said Genie . "" Okay . I will . Well , here I go ! Ala-maz ! "" he shouted . And just like that , he disappeared ."	Prose/Lyrical
482	"1.1 The Library Association is the professional body that represents some 25,000 librarians and information workers in the United Kingdom . Under the terms of its Royal Charter , The Association has a duty to promote high quality library and information services and to advise government , employers and others on all aspects of library and information provision . 1.2 Therefore we welcome the opportunity to comment on the Department for Culture , Media and Sport review of the British Library 1.3 The Library Association response is formed by expressions from our membership and is based on their views as both library and information professionals and users of British Library services . The overall impression of the membership is that they appreciate the services provided , they believe the services are of a reasonable standard and that the relationship between the British Library and the library and information profession is good . 1.4 Within that context we offer the following comments for your consideration . 2 . Purpose , aims and objectives 2.1 The British Library meets the aims stated in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport background paper supplied with the review questionnaire . However , we are unable to comment fully on the purpose , aims and objectives of the British Library because we are insufficiently aware of them . We are surprised by this lack of awareness within the profession and we would suggest this carries an important message for the British Library . In order to address this apparent problem The Library Association would welcome working with the British Library on a strategy to improve communication throughout the profession . 2.2 The agenda of the British Library should be as broad as that of Government . Therefore the Library should focus on its contribution to lifelong learning , social inclusion , literacy , information skills and employability . Key areas are access , regionalism and partnership . This requires the British Library to work closely with Government departments that carry forward these agendas . 2.3 A further objective for the British Library should be developing formal professional collaboration and partnership . The Library has a role to play in ' joined-up ' library and information provision . By working with other libraries , professional library and information associations , key professional organisations and commercial partners the British Library can provide an important focus for the library and information profession in the UK . 3 . Organisation , efficiency and effectiveness 3.1 Establishing and maintaining links with departments and personnel at the British Library is sometimes confusing and difficult . There are often apparent overlaps in the titles and responsibilities of different departments . Communication on a theme , topic or project will sometimes appear to stem from several departments , with no underlying staff responsibility clearly discernible . This can create an impression of bureaucracy : streamlining departmental responsibilities and clarifying job titles and contact routes would improve the effectiveness of the Library's communications . 3.2 In general it is felt that the British Library's services offer good value for money , although it must be reiterated that members often do not have an understanding of all of the products and services available . 3.3 The Co-operation and Partnership Programme is a welcome development particularly as it encourages innovation and cross-sectoral partnership . However , the themes for which bids are invited do not reflect the themes in Government policy . 3.4 We welcome the Library's new premises in St Pancras . We also welcome an attitudinal change over the past year , with a move towards greater openness and willingness to "" look beyond St Pancras "" . Access to the building has become easier and the building itself has contributed to the regeneration of one of London's most deprived areas . 3.5 However , there is a developing concern about space within the Euston Road building . One anxiety is the availability of reader seats , particularly in the Humanities Reading Room , as the number of members increase . Another concern is the way in which the role of the British Library as a comprehensive archive is slowly being eroded as a result of the lack of space . This highlights a dilemma for the British Library , that is , the tension between widening access to the collections and maintaining the role of preservation . 4 . Customer relations and responsiveness 4.1 Most Library Association members have experience of BLDSC services and their overall impression of these services is favourable . The inter-library loan service is regarded as effective and efficient and , since going on-line , the speed of service has vastly improved . However , one drawback is cost , which many regard as too expensive . In fact it has been pointed out that the most effective communication from the British Library seem to relate to changes in pricing structures . 4.2 As far as customer relations and the quality framework is concerned there seems to be a lack of a coherent mechanism for taking the views of service users , and non-users , into account . Formal evaluation of the services provided should be transparent and the British Library should benchmark its activities against Charter Mark headings . 4.3 The main market for British Library services seems to be the post-18 education and research community . The Library should be looking for ways of engaging a much wider audience . Key areas for consideration are family learning , information skills training , literacy , IT literacy and adult basic skills . 4.4 The collection policy of the British library should also reflect the complex multicultural UK population . Many perceive the British Library as an institution of cultural and heritage significance . Providing access to materials in the mother tongue or concerning the mother country of many UK citizens may be regarded as important for the British Library in fulfilling its cultural role . 5 . Links with other organisations 5.1 The directional role of the British Library within the UK library profession can not be overemphasised . However , there is a need for the Library to redefine its image to a wider audience placing itself at the heart of a national library network , enhancing the image of libraries in general . 5.2 In order to fulfil its role within the context of Government policy the British Library must develop partnerships with a variety of organisations : libraries in all sectors ; museums and archives ; government departments and bodies ; professional associations , commercial companies and the voluntary sector . There is considerable scope for developing creative partnerships , for example , becoming involved with the Children's Laureate initiative or World Book Day . 5.3 The withdrawal of the British Library cataloguing and conservation grants programme some years ago is still regretted , particularly as the BL Co-operation and Partnership Programme specifically excludes funding for retrospective conversion . It is hoped that the Full Disclosure initiative will address this omission , as the ability of UK libraries to share responsibility with the British Library for coverage of research material depends to a large extent on such material being catalogued . 6 . New Technology 6.1 New technology has the potential to allow the British Library to offer services that contribute to , and underpin , lifelong learning . It will facilitate the distribution of services to the network of libraries in the UK ; to schools , colleges and universities ; to the workplace ; and to the home . The British Library can contribute to the national competitiveness and skills agenda by promoting literacy , numeracy and information skills . 6.2 Interoperability and bandwidth issues need careful consideration in the context of achieving inclusion . In view of the bandwidth and computers available to many users , the British Library should concentrate on delivering ' simple ' services as well as bandwidth-hungry digitisation projects . The services provided should be robust and reliable . 6.3 New technology will enhance the worldwide standing of the British Library . By studying best practice among the world's national library providers and embedding their own technology-based services within an international framework the British Library could open a gateway that would allow global access to resources at a local level . 6.4 At present there seems to be inadequate provision for the preservation of non-book materials . As more materials are produced in non-print format the British Library , as the national library , should be given the resources to preserve the literary and information heritage of the non-print materials produced in the UK . 6.5 BLDSC should minimise the paper-based aspects of the request and supply process . ' Digital signatures ' will obviate the need for signed copyright declarations and will facilitate a seamless supply model of document delivery . 7 . Other comments 7.1 The British Library must identify its contribution to an inclusive lifelong learning system by : enhancing access to learning ; enhancing the generation of content to learning networks ; enhancing networked access to resources . 8 . Conclusion 8.1 The Library Association appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Department for Culture , Media and Sport review of the British Library . The suggestions we have made are in the spirit of support for the overall aims of the British Library . 8.2 We fully recognise that many of our suggestions have resource implications and we would stress the need for the British Library to be funded adequately to fulfil its important national role . Within that context the Library must reassess its priorities between its traditional roles and the broader challenges of current Government policy . 8.3 We hope that our comments prove useful and welcome the possibility of further engagement in this debate . The Library Association , December 2000 For further information please contact : Kathy Ennis Professional Adviser , Academic and Research Libraries"	Legal
1604	"Grafotik Menu Simple Advice For Pretoria Handyman Services – For Adults A handyman can enjoy an important role when you really need home remodeling function or fixes to become achieved . It could not be completely wrong to term "" pretoria handyman "" as a jack of deals of sorts . Most charge per hour for those job finished as well as for any materials which are employed in obtaining the job determined . It is best to retain the services of such solutions for specialized jobs as they are specialist pros who will never waste your time and effort while achieving the desired outcomes when necessary . The are many professional services on offer at just the simply click of any computer mouse , as numerous are turning towards on the internet marketing techniques . When you retain the services of these facilities you will eliminate the need of hiring several building contractors or numerous providers . Moreover , these professionals are competent sufficient to multi-task . For example , should you need domestic plumbing to become completed or you need drywall work to be accomplished , hiring just one handyman services pretoria will resolve equally individuals issues and more . These facilities are less of an expensive alternative , being a solitary employee are capable of doing the majority of the jobs necessary . You will hence not have to bear the overhead costs which may without doubt create a strain on your pockets . Deciding on well-known professional services will allow you to obtain just the finest they must offer you . This kind of reputed businesses will not have concealed expenses nor are you going to have to worry about being billed 54cyarxcanet for more than-time . Several have modern day Gps system methods making sure the completion of your own task inside the stipulated time period . A keeping track of document can be acquired for your pleasure . The prices of any expert are financially cost-effective , while still being experts within the field . These kinds of services could be hired at a fraction of the price than before , due to the fact that many tend not to tag-up the expenses of their supplies . Receipts of all the components obtained can also be offered , making sure you can find no fake activities becoming carried out . The above factors magnify the significance and advantages of hiring expert handymen professional services . After looking at this helpful article , you simply will not be possessing any doubt in your head concerning the distinction such proficient solutions can make to your home development tasks ."	Promotion
1620	Stellar Evolution Stellar evolution is a description of the way that stars change with time . On human timescales , most stars do not appear to change at all , but if we were to look for billions of years , we would see how stars are born , how they age , and finally how they die . The primary factor determining how a star evolves is its mass as it reaches the main sequence . The following is a brief outline tracing the evolution of a low-mass and a high-mass star . The life of a star Stars are born out of the gravitational collapse of cool , dense molecular clouds . As the cloud collapses , it fragments into smaller regions , which themselves contract to form stellar cores . These protostars rotate faster and increase in temperature as they condense , and are surrounded by a protoplanetary disk out of which planets may later form . The central temperature of the contracting protostar increases to the point where nuclear reactions begin . At this point , hydrogen is converted into helium in the core and the star is born onto the main sequence . For about 90 % of its life , the star will continue to burn hydrogen into helium and will remain a main sequence star . Once the hydrogen in the core has all been burned to helium , energy generation stops and the core begins to contract . This raises the internal temperature of the star and ignites a shell of hydrogen burning around the inert core . Meanwhile , the helium core continues to contract and increase in temperature , which leads to an increased energy generation rate in the hydrogen shell . This causes the star to expand enormously and increase in luminosity – the star becomes a red giant . Eventually , the core reaches temperatures high enough to burn helium into carbon . If the mass of the star is less than about 2.2 solar masses , the entire core ignites suddenly in a helium core flash . If the star is more massive than this , the ignition of the core is more gentle . At the same time , the star continues to burn hydrogen in a shell around the core . The star burns helium into carbon in its core for a much shorter time than it burned hydrogen . Once the helium has all been converted , the inert carbon core begins to contract and increase in temperature . This ignites a helium burning shell just above the core , which in turn is surrounded by a hydrogen burning shell . The inert carbon core continues to contract but never reaches temperatures sufficient to initiate carbon burning . However , the existence of two burning shells leads to a thermally unstable situation in which hydrogen and helium burning occur out of phase with each other . This thermal pulsing is characteristic of asymptotic giant branch stars . The carbon core continues to contract until it is supported by electron degeneracy pressure . No further contraction is possible ( the core is now supported by the pressure of electrons , not gas pressure ) , and the core has formed a white dwarf . Meanwhile , each thermal pulse causes the outer layers of the star to expand , resulting in a period of mass loss . Eventually , the outer layers of the star are ejected completely and ionised by the white dwarf to form a planetary nebula . Stars greater than 8 solar masses The contracting core will reach the temperature for carbon ignition , and begin to burn to neon . This process of core burning followed by core contraction and shell burning , is repeated in a series of nuclear reactions producing successively heavier elements until iron is formed in the core . Iron can not be burned to heavier elements as this reaction does not generate energy – it requires an input of energy to proceed . The star has therefore finally run out of fuel and collapses under its own gravity . The mass of the core of the star dictates what happens next . If the core has a mass less than about 3 times that of our Sun , the collapse of the core may be halted by the pressure of neutrons ( this is an even more extreme state than the electron pressure that supports white dwarfs ! ) . In this case , the core becomes a neutron star . The sudden halt in the contraction of the core produces a shock wave which propagates back out through the outer layers of the star , blowing it apart in a core-collapse supernova explosion . If the core has a mass greater than about 3 solar masses , even neutron pressure is not sufficient to withstand gravity , and it will collapse further into a stellar black hole . The ejected gas expands into the interstellar medium , enriching it with all the elements synthesised during the star's lifetime and in the explosion itself . These supernova remnants are the chemical distribution centres of the Universe .	Information/Explanation
1628	"Received , at last , one more Judicial Review ' Refusal ' , ' on the papers ' , refused by last month's ' Breach of a Restraning Order ' trial judge , His Honour Judge Curran , on some bl == dy nonsense over whether or not a ' Restraining Order ' was ever served on me in the cells as if there was not ample contemporaneous records about ! Originating from , if true , this very ' Harassment ' issue , £ 50 fine , ' shoot to kill ' hearings and Section 39 abuse , under review in this very JR application ! So who blocks the investigation the most senior Cardiff Crown court judge ... anything to block exposure of the truth ... corruption is just rife around here or is it me with some brain disorder ? While the prosecution barrister , David Garreth Evans apolgised to the jury , for not being available as my main defence witness , he still having an early version of this now , ubiquitous ' restraining order ' in his pocket . The District Judge John Charles' Magistrates court 's , custody and cell cctv records are , meantime , quickly being shredded , re written or burnt , in fear the law , that Litigants in Person are not , as of right , entitled to public court records , may get itself repealed in Westminster .. So , if the CPS has a copy in his pocket , partly hand written by John Charles , then what is prosecution exhibit 1 , labelled ' 1st December11 Restraining Order ' , doing with the jury when it is date stamped 9th Dec ? So another version , slipped under my police door on 23rd Dec 11 , is the first one I see but different also from exhibit 1 . Very strange . Very strange , indeed , for the police did not e-mail me one , as promised , on the 19th Dec , over the phone from Llantwit police station . Oh , very odd ...... but hang on a minute that must be the one they quickly printed up following my unexpected appeal to Crown Court , in England , on the 7th Dec , no ? But I went to the magistrates court and told they had no record at all of any restraining order . But , of course , John Charles , had , in his fit of peak , scribbled out a section 4 ' restraining order ' , contrary to the Section 2 Harassment Act , currently before the court , to obtain a maximum jail term , if broken . Someone in HM Partnership , however , must have blocked it because the 8th Dec version , created on computor and ' certificate of conviction ' has omitted the ' fear of violence ' phrase on it . Stop worrying Maurice , Gareth , you will remember , told the jury he was checking up with his local bar council that all is ok and that the apparant conspiracy , witnessed by his friends in the public gallery , of CPS and Charles hatching a diversion , was going rapidly pear shaped . Muttering over court exhibits , I remember and I never saw . I heard Gareth and judge mumble , ' switch them ' and we will have him locked away . Fortunately , all was tape recorded and smuggled out of court as a procautionary matter in case the cabal are setting me up , again , to be shot by South Wales Police marksmen . All this was discussed , in detail , during the IAP and MAPPA police HQ meetings in June 2009 . Operation Orchid and Operation Chalice , re machine gun and snatching my younger daughter , were foiled but hey will get it right next time , I fear . Remember , They control the Welsh IPCC , Welsh GMC , Welsh Bar Council and their Cardiff Bay ' talking shop ' , Wales' big mistake for its best future ..... their key members are entrenched , all in the same lodge and ready to do more damage for the devil . Any way , not to worry ' justice ' is in a safe pair of hands ..... His Honour ordered Gareth to nip back up to his Crown Prosecution Service office , in Merthyr Tydfil and get the Restraining Order , serve it to me so we can all go home . But , over night , we all forget except for two on the jury . They are starting to work out the judge's cunning plan only to be thwarted , following their request for sight of the custody records that service ever took place in the cells below that chaotic December magistrates court hearing when I was refused the usual right to cross examine , call witnesses , finish my evidence , have any legal papers or even have pen and paper in my cell . "" Do not trouble your pretty heads "" , Judge Curran must have said , "" the court record of there ever being printed a ' restraining order and served , all on that day , is irrelevant to Maurice's blatent guilt "" . "" and as for the two cameras , he referred to , one in his special padded isolation cell , with £ 5000 ' see through ' door , that filmed every move of this MAPPA level 3 victim , sadly , ( pause while wiping his eyes ) , GEOamey Custody Services appear to have ' mislaid ' all the footage . "" "" It is also quite irrelevant so , hurry up on your way , its late on a Friday afternoon and I am already late , a majority verdict will do and dont worry about Maurice calling for Gareth , the doctor and another ,,,, its all far too late "" Hang on a moment , did n't this same judge insist the main witness , the doctor , give evidence for me but only through a court lawyer ? Yes , of course , his 22nd February 2012 Crown Court Order , part of my defence evidence stuffed up my rectum , in order to get it into court . Now , as I remember it , this judge also appointed a special Cardiff Cabal lawyer , under rule 39 of the Youth and Justice Criminal Evidence Act 1999 , anything to block any possiblility of evidence coming out and that I may not have ' significant brain damage ' or ' possible brain tumour ' after all . But what is this , both doctor and appointed lawyer fail to attend court ..... "" oh , what can be done ? "" "" Oh , I am all undone , I am in fear and shaking in my shoes , of the meer rumour of this last act of treachery must cause , being mis understood by Jo Public as being an unfair trial . Just what will it do to the name of Cardiff law courts ..... oh , perish the thought I wonder if Enyd Blyton could have made up this sort of stuff ? Must look into serialising these proceedings , some time , to rival some TV soap . His Honour Judge Curran has , understandably , rejected my 1 st Judicial Review Application , ' on paper ' , on the premise that it is ' not clear ' as to my reasoning behind my grievance , in being convicted of so serious offence , during my absence . The police , once again , are reliant on false forensic evidence supplied by Derrick Hassan of the Cardiff Crown Court and a doctor to obtain yet another prolonged incarceration without a proper trial . Court record will disclose that the District Judge , Bodfan Jenkins , presiding at last August Cardiff magistrates hearing , had not even been given my correspondence regarding my right , under statute law , to apply for a re opening of the case . He was also never made aware of the full circumstances on the bizarre incident , involving alleged prohibited weapons in my possession , including a ' walking stick shot gun ' , being the real reason for the summary conviction and £ 50 fine . [ This startlingly acknowledgement by the police , of finding a real prohibited weapon , contrary to Section 5 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 1968 Fire Arms Act 1966 , at my home , right in the middle of my January 2009 ' WW1 Lewis machine gun ' trial , was completely hushed up and only surfaced before the very same District Judge , Mr Bodfan Jenkins , this March , in one of my many private prosecutions , due to someone's stupidity letting it slip through their own safety net ] . This one caused the destruction of my family life , at 8am on 22nd June 2009 , using twenty five coppers + , followed by my nearly eight months in jail as an innocent man , but who 's counting ? This one , with a rogue doctor , both on the purse strings of lots of charity cash , in South Wales ...... but that is another story to those with the bottle This one personally arranged to have me struck off as a veterinary surgeon , using countless spurious convictions from a thoroughly corrupt Cardiff judicial system ... but this is only the tip of the iceberg *** , My friends know where you live This same argument or the use of Section 36 YJCEA , anything to suppress the truth , is just what District Judge Berg , on 2 nd November 10 common assault conviction , applied when expediting it in meer nana seconds during my forced absence , due to ill health due to unnecessary analgesic medication . This appeal is now in Bristol having been transferred from Wales due to its potentially embarrassing outcome . If only a litigant in person in Cardiff could just have sight of public court records , when only reserved for the legal profession , we need not shout blackmail so often . Exposure , of course , of what really is going on in our courts , if further public records were to be disclosed to the public , would , for example , be like what happened following the prison hospital emergency , needing seventeen prison officers to extricate me . Out of the prison for a day , in cuffs , I get sight of what was written on court record , my ' Remand Warrant ' indicating clearly what lay behind the judiciary's next move . Apart from quick sight of my custody record and remnants of my exalted status amongst the inmates of a category level C parochial prison , during my 2009 stay , as MAPPA level3 , the words , ' extremely dangerous ' remained . Both court and custody documents , seen by myself , during the material times of all these JRs , currently before His Honour Judge Curran , Mr Justice Singh , record I have ' mental health issues ' clearly written with ' significant brain damage ' written . This immediately brings into doubt my level of capacity in the past three years court appearances , exceeding well over one hundred , known by the prosecution throughout . This hand written note , on the Remand Warrant , no doubt , was by the clerk of the court and / or signed by the very District Judge first implementing a Section 36 , without giving reason and then sitting in judgment . As for the so called ' served ' Restraining Order neither the original nor certified true copy we will ever see because it now helps identify the author of it and true recipient for my term of imprisonment . This 2010 ' common assault ' conviction , on appeal in Bristol , will prove even more interesting , following my most recent attempts at the steps of Cardiff Crown Court to lodge my paper , as it is so devoid of ' magistrates record ' , the recent letters from the court clerk effectively stating , ' in your dreams , Maurice ' , no records for you . So why does this latest JR refusal , ' on paper ' , accompany a copy of the Cardiff Crown court log of my 1 st / 2 nd March 2012 Harassment Appeal , when for years now I have always been refused of such public record ? If you are eligible for legal aid then , of course , your designated lawyer can see them , at tax payer's expence , for as long as he likes and even give them to you , if he so pleases . The reality of this is , of course , is quite unrealistic , if nefarious schemes are afoot as he or she is an ' officer of the court ' and therefore making it impossible to remain impartial . Statute law dictates that a ' litigant in person ' ( LiP ) may , if he is so lucky , obtain disclosure of a clerk of the court's notes , both contemporaneous and later records , such as , in this case , written record of the allegation ( s ) facing the accused . The court is only obliged to release a certificate of conviction . These next two ladies outside the RCJ have spent much of their lives , fighting for justice , mutilated by this gross injustice of failed disclosure of court documents I have received no copy of whatever was first before the August Magistrate , what was charge was changed , in my absence or copy of the CPS legal argument that went on with the court without me . This had followed the duty solicitor's hurried visit to my cell , that summer's day , advising me to plead ' not guilty ' as it had been arranged for the case to be dropped if I did . Why was so serious a charge dropped ? Because I had just served new statements , from a Lincolnshire airfield , of eye witnesses over the police re painted ' machine gun ' , spent still more hours before with the station's inspector while copious complaint was again being taken down , re the Cardiff IPPC office refusing , since 2009 , to properly investigate : 1 . the Polices policy to having me shot 2 . falsifying critical evidence in their disastrous ' machine gun ' case , painting of the ' gun ' twice , making it serviceable , all to fool a jury 3 . changing the sex of ' Foxy ' , their undercover agent , that had to give evidence 4 . their continuing harassment of me , around the UK , by the use of falsified two year old psychiatric evidence Today , as in the recent ' Restraining Order ' jury trial and their written notes to the judge , I am still without the public record of either of these cases ! Court record , regarding the Lord Mayor Cardiff to be shot , are being withheld for the purpose of my being sectioned , again , under the 1983 Mental Health Act , but this time for life . South Wales Police almost achieved it in 2009 and with co-operation from the Tottenham police , during the ' Nigerian Musa seven snatched children affair ' , in court NOW at Wood Green Crown Court , London . This time the same MAPPA police intend finding the ' elusive second doctor ' , needed by statute , to sign me away , IPP , to Broadmoor . The purpose of my JR Application is clearly in the interest of the general public , not just for my liberty , safety and family concerns . The next presiding judge , I humbly submit , is required to consider the consequences should this need to go to the Court of Appeal happen and where Article 6 and its supposed safeguards will again be challenged as being needed even more in our current political climate . My recent interviews , with my ' straw poll ' sample taken from within the walls of Cardiff Prison , proved disturbing to say the least . Invariably , both remand and convicted prisoners do not even see the paper work identifying as why they are in prison ! Yes , many neither care nor enquire ; the place is a ' holiday camp ' with no real purpose , so why rock the boat ? If I could have found another LiP , out of the hundred or so prisoners on my wing , I may have established if I was the only one , in the prison , with that special piece of paper , a ' Remand Warrant ' . It was signed by the court giving authority to allow the HM Governor to lock me up . Where His Honour and or the next judge will be concerned will rest on the veracity of those in ultimate control , the guards who guard the guardians , for without proper disclosure there will be yet another fine example of a travesty of justice in a Cardiff court room . Photo of my leaving Cardiff Magistrates , in hand cuffs , by narked South Wales Police , on 1st December 2011 , with no knowledge of any existance of a ' restraining order but beaten up by GEOamey Custodial Services just minutes before . all caught on video the judge , Mr Curran , refused to be made shown to the 4th May12 jury in Cardiff Crown Court . AGAINST CONVICTION 1 . His Honour Judge Curran ought to have recused himself from presiding over the trial of the Appellant as he had previously stayed the Appellant's application to the Cardiff Administrative Court for Judicial Review of the Appellant's appeal at Cardiff Crown Court , Case A20110290 , on 1 st March 2012 and his conviction and sentance of harassment , contrary to the Section 2 of Protection from Harassment Act 1997 , at Cardiff Magistrates Court , on 1st December 2011 , the subject of the Restraining Order allegedly breached in this present case . 2 . Whilst accepting that the issues of fact in the trial were for the jury , His Honour Judge Curran made a number of rulings that erred in law similar if not identical to those by both District Judge John Charles , at Cardiff Magistrates and his Honour Judge PD Hughes QC , in its appeal , at Cardiff Crown Court . 3 . Subsequently , failed disclosure of evidence , by way of court and custody documents and cctv footage , all under the control of the South Wales Police , caused the Appellant , in each of these court cases , compounded the reasons for refusal of access to his own legal papers in both court and prison and be given any facilities , at all , to either interview or call his own witnesses . 4 . All prosecution witnesses , in the two previous above mentioned trials , were prevented from being cross examined by the Claimant while the main witness , a doctor , in the jury trial , subject to this appeal , was denied the Claimant's required examination or cross examination , contrary to His Honour Judge Curran QC's 22 nd February 2012 Court Order . 5 . This was further compounded following , first by the failure to attend of the court instructed barrister , to cross examine the witness ( es ) ' on the Appellant's behalf ' , under Section 36 of Youth and Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 and following His Honour Judge Hugh Davies QC's April 2012 Court Order that caused this main prosecution witness to be removed from the witness list , as irrelevant and so facilitate the Appellant's immediate release from prison . 6 . For the prosecution barrister , on 2 nd May 2012 , to then open the prosecution's case by stating , before the jury and the trial judge , that the South Wales Police had ' just decided ' not to now call the doctor to give evidence , was nothing short of a criminal offence . 7 . For the Appellant then not to be allowed to call this already empanelled prosecution witness , being ' anybody's property ' , as his psychiatrist , expert witness and / or witness of fact and / or as his character witness , was a further abuse . 8 . Before His Honour Judge Hugh Davies QC the prosecution had admitted it was only by the citing of this same witness , in all these three hearings , 2009 WW1Machine Gun trial and numerously related other summary hearings , by the South Wales Police , that the Crown Prosecution Service had been able to be successful , for the South Wales Police , to oppose the Appellant's preparation of both his civil and criminal cases , against the Chief Constable , out of custody , since 8am 22 nd June 2009 . 9 . By April 2012 the Appellant had almost served the pre arranged prison sentence of nine months , in any event , when bail would have been granted , by His Honour Judge Hugh Davies QC , had the Appellant been so stupidly minded as to apply . 10 . There was a "" real possibility "" of actual and / or perceived bias , as a result of His Honour Judge Curran presiding over the Appellant's trial , when the learned Judge had already stayed the Appellant's application for permission to apply for Judicial Review of the dismissal of his appeal against conviction , on 2 March 2012 , relating to the conviction in respect of which the Restraining Order , imposed by Cardiff Magistrates ' , which was alleged to have been now breached . 11 . The certificate of conviction , at last released to the Appellant by HM Court and Tribunals Service , states the 1 st or 9 th December 2011 dated Restraining Order was dependent upon the conviction for a breach in Section 2 of the said Act but Prosecution Exhibit 1 indicates the ' served order ' on the Appellant was that from a Section 4 Restraining Order dated 8 th December 2011 . 12 . His Honour's failure to conduct a ' Vue de Justice ' with the jury , following the custody officers in the both courts , employed by GEOamey Custody Services Ltd , confiscation of the Appellant's scale drawings of the Cardiff magistrates custody suite , where the alleged offence took place was an abuse in law . 13 . His Honour's failure to grant an adjournment for medical attention or even access to his medication in the cells below , following GEOamey Custody Services' vicious assaults upon the Appellant , both on 1 st December 2011 and 4 th April 2012 , was an abuse of process . 14 . His Honour's failure to allow the Appellant sight of all the prosecution exhibits , eg website blog of 4 th December 2011 on http://www.kirkflyingvet.com/ , on arrest , before caution and / or during the trial and sight of various jury ' notes ' , passed to His Honour , following the Appellant's suggestion , in the course of the trial , was also wrong in law . 15 . His Honour's failure to ever allow the Appellant sight of the original or sight of a certified true copy , of the Restraining Order , allegedly served on him , was also wrong in law . 16 . His Honour's failure to order HM Prison , Cardiff to release the Appellant's legal papers and posted in court exhibits by his Mackenzie Friend , allow him proper access to facilities , in order to conduct is defence did nothing but to compound his difficulties and were further breaches in his rights under the Rule of Law . 17 . In the alternative , at the appropriate time , His Honour failed to properly consider granting bail , out of custody , in the light of these apparent extreme and unusual circumstances , unable to find local legal representation , as was indicated by His Honour Judge Hugh Davies QC , on 7 th April 2012 , in Cardiff Crown Court and by His Honour Judge Lambert in Bristol Crown Court , during an apparent application for bail well outside South Wales . 18 . The Appellant therefore had an unfair trial and / or the said trial took place in breach of article 6 ( 1 ) of the ECHR as incorporated by schedule 1 of the Human Rights Act 1998 . 1 . Mr. David Gareth Evans of counsel ought not to have prosecuted the case against the Appellant as he was a potential prosecution or defence witness relating to the drawing up and purported ' service of a ' Restraining Order ' signed ? by District Judge Charles at Cardiff Magistrates' Court on 1 st December 2011 . 2 . An approach by the Appellant's Mackenzie Friend caused the CPS barrister to produce another version of Prosecution Exhibit One , ' Restraining Order ' , not date stamped by the court . Prosecution Exhibit One included the court date stamp 9 th Dec 2011 . 3 . The prosecution barrister admitted , before the jury , a ' draught ' Restraining Order did still exist and was ordered to produce it , by the following day , by His Honour Judge John Curran . 4 . There was discussion , quite wrongly before the jury , as to whether Mr. Evans would be called as a witness relating to the ' drawing up ' of the ' Restraining Order and he indicated to His Honour Judge Curran that he would have to "" seek advice from his professional body the Bar Council for England and Wales "" . 5 . The court heard no more so the Appellant called him as a defence witness and was refused . 6 . The Appellant was refused an adjournment in the light of late prosecution disclosure of relevant evidence germane to the original 1 st December 2011 conviction , upon which the Restraining Order relied . 7 . Further evidence to support , unavailable in the time frame available , was the ' contemporaneous note ' made by the Appellant's solicitor of his client's memory of events on the 1 st December 2011 , on 22 nd December2011 , just two days before the Appellant's arrest and subsequent incarceration . 8 . HM Cardiff prison's governors denied the Appellant proper client / solicitor / witness access , his access to his own funds for the defence or provide proper service of his letters / faxes / e-mails and telephone calls , to and from his solicitor , helpers or proposed witnesses controlled by MAPPA . 9 . An issue had therefore arisen in the case as to what documents were allegedly served on the Appellant relating to the Restraining Order and as to whether one had been served as handwritten by District Judge Charles as there had been evidence adduced before the jury by way of unsworn submissions by Mr. Evans and by sworn evidence from those in the public gallery , that the former had handed up a draft of the proposed Restraining Order to District Charles for approval and that District Charles had written comments on it in order stating he withed to make the Restraining Order stronger ( change to a Section 4 Order , ' fear of violence ' ) . 10 . There was a "" real possibility "" of actual and / or perceived bias as a result of Mr. Evans prosecuting the case , when he had made oral submissions to His Honour Judge Curran which were in effect the giving of evidence which was unsworn and in respect of which the Appellant was unable to challenge by way of cross-examine . 11 . In fact the Appellant had been absent in the cells at Cardiff Magistrates' Court when the issue of the ' Restraining Order ' had been discussed by Mr. Evans with District Judge Charles on 1 st December 2011 . 12 . In addition , the relevant exchanges between Mr. Evans as prosecutor and His Honour Judge Curran were heard in the presence of the jury when they should have been ordered to retire , causing prejudice and bias in the Appellant's case . The jury specifically asked for sight of the original , not copy , of both the GEOamey Custodial Services custody and clerk of the court's log and contemporaneous notes of evidence but the judge indicated , in the absence of the Appellant , that they were not relevant . LACK OF DISCLOSURE IN RESPECT OF THE APPELLANT 1 . The prosecution failed to supply to the Appellant the complete log with handwritten notes and annotations of the custody records and cctv footage , kept by GEOamey Custodial Services , that had been in charge of security in the cells at Cardiff Magistrates' Court and also the notes made by Mr. Michael Williams , the Clerk of the Court and others at Cardiff Magistrates' Court . 2 . Further , it emerged on 3 May 2012 , during the trial that Mr. Evans was appearing in for the prosecution , he had handed up a draft of the ' Restraining Order ' to District Judge Charles on 1 st December 2011 and the learned District Judge had made handwritten additions to it with suggestions for making it stronger to be one under Section 4 of the Act . 3 . There was an issue in the trial as to exactly which version of the ' Restraining Order ' had actually been served on the Appellant in the cells by the Security Officer Mr. Leigh Barker and so the existence of the copy of the ' Restraining Order ' with the handwritten additions made by District Judge Charles became an issue as the Appellant wished the jury to see it . 4 . At the conclusion of the proceedings , on 3 May 2012 , His Honour Judge Curran enquired as to the whereabouts of the version of the Restraining Order with the handwritten additional made by District Judge Charles and was told by Mr. Evans that it was at the CPS Headquarters in the Appellant's case file at Merthyr Tydfil . 5 . Although His Honour Judge Curran directed that it be produced at the resumption of the proceedings , on 4 May 2012 , only a computer print out of the amended restraining Order was produced and the jury was deprived of seeing either the original version with the handwritten additions , made by District Judge Charles or a certified true copy of the original 1 st December 2011 Restraining Order made on some date between 1 st and 9 th December 2011 . 6 . The Appellant had also again sought disclosure of the notes made by Mr. Michael Williams , the Clerk of the Court at Cardiff Magistrates' Court at the commencement of the proceedings , on 4 May 2012 but no order or any determination was made by His Honour Judge Curran for their production , instead , in the absence of the Appellant , informing the jury they , along with the prison and GEOmey Custodial Services records were not relevant . 7 . Prior to trial His Honour knew the Appellant had received correspondence from Cardiff Magistrates stating he was not entitled to any court record other than the certificate of conviction for this and some currently seven ongoing summary cases , different but all related to this current appeal . CASE SHOULD HAVE BEEN WITHDRAWN FROM CONSIDERATION BY THE JURY 1 . Although the Appellant did n't make any submissions of ' no case to answer ' , after the close of the prosecution's case , His Honour Judge Curran should have withdrawn the case from the jury on the grounds that the evidence as it then stood , relating to the alleged service of the Restraining Order on the Appellant in the cell number three of Cardiff Magistrates' Court , on 1 st December 2011 , was so unreliable that no jury properly directed could convict on that evidence . 2 . Conflicting evidence had been given between the Clerk of the Court , Mr. Michael Williams and the Security Officer , Mr. Leigh Barker as to whether the Appellant had been serviced in one of the cells or in the corridor of the cell area below the Magistrates , whether he had been served with one or two separate documents , if at all and when put alongside their original but conflicting police witness statements , it is the Appellant's submission , that for this case to have even reached a jury was an abuse of process fueled by vengeance . 3 . In addition , Mr. Barker had given evidence that he had read "" Restraining Order "" at the top of the document , that he had stated in evidence he had given to the Appellant but did n't give any evidence that the Appellant's name was on the document or that he had read the Appellant's name on the document in question . 4 . There was a serious risk of doubt regarding the alleged service of the ' Restraining Order ' on the Appellant in the cell area of Cardiff Magistrates' Court by Mr. Barker on the Appellant . 5 . In the premises , the Appellant's conviction is thereby rendered "" unsafe "" under section 2 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 . South Wales Police are currently in the lime light , following the Swansea police corruption trial and numerous other revelations so it is of no surprise the St Mellons , Cardiff base of the IPCC have put both multiple complaints from me and my family on the back burner . In the light of my complaints , since 2009 , to the IPCC and my long terms remanded in custody , with little or no activity so far identified on your part , in these investigations , I wondered if I might ask you to clarify as to just what progress , if at all , has been so far occasioned in this scandalous affair . I have now obtained copy from the Crown Prosecution Service ( Cardiff ) , with a witness actually writing the colour was ' silver ' and yet this was never raised at the trial . Why not ? How do you account for that or is this a matter of complaint to ' HM Partnership ' and Her Majesty's Prerogative ? Just who , in the Principality , guards the guardian ? I intend going to High Grove with yet another letter of complaint . http://kirkflyingvet.com/photos/around_the_world/HRH-Undelivered-Letter.aspx I returned to Wickenby , Lincolnshire airfield , last week only to find no investigation started , no witness contacted , more eye witnesses found to the fact that the ' gun ' was bought from me as painted black all over . When seized by the police , a year later , it was now with a silver painted ammunition magazine . You refuse to return a copy of my statement or a walking stick shot gun found in the search of my home . In August 2009 South Wales Police , three of them , then returned to Wickenby , with it , less magazine , for further prosecution statements . Police had unblocked it to fire a live round , but admitted obtaining a statement that witnesses saw it painted silver by the new owner immediately after purchase from me . The ' gun ' next appeared in my January 2010 Cardiff Crown Court trial painted ' all black , ' to match the photos and videos off my 2008 website , http://www.kirkflyingvet.com/ even with its ammunition clearly visible ! My younger daughter helped me draw out a route of some 2000 miles the gun may have travelled , during your colleagues' planned conspiracy to pervert the course of justice but there remain gaps , as the jury noticed , of just who , when and where this item went , whilst inside the boundaries of South Wales ? The ' gun ' was returned after my acquittal , painted silver again , not even in matching paint ? How ? Inspector 317 of the Lincolnshire police expressed amazement that this enquiry is not being conducted by way of a ' managed ' IPCC investigation from head office , in Manchester , England , instead of some back street office in Cardiff and under your control , a fellow member of South Wales Police force . This was the continuing saga on how the HM Court Service ( Wales ) , over these past twenty years , are determined to block my appeals , in either civil or criminal proceedings , from ever being aired in an English court room . In this particular case , before Bristol Crown , was , you may think , the simple delivery of appeal documents at Cardiff Crown Court over a ' Contempt of Court ' conviction , now two years ago , my having already served its prison sentence . Procedure dictated that it was to be forwarded by Cardiff Crown Court to the Criminal Court of Appeal , in the Royal Courts of Justice , London . It was a dispute over Cardiff's Recorder , His Honour Judge Nicholas Cooke QC and his pointless Court Order in that it would ' obtain ' the medical evidence I so needed in order to stop severe pain by getting a long overdue total hip replacement operation . Well , today , the appeal against ' common assault conviction ' was adjourned , in order I find a ' defence lawyer ' . If that failed it was for HM Partnership , including the worried Cardiff Crown Court staff , to apply for a Section 36 and so chose one of their own to be ' cross examined ' by ! Incestuous is n't it when you think that this very same Cardiff court officer , who had originally refused to accept my Criminal Court of Appeal papers , by pushing me down the stairs , causing the re breaking of my leg , may also now be protected , again , from my long awaited cross examination should this English court also succumb to contagion or infection . This is a further indictment of the true state of our legal system , in Wales , with the English judge noting the alleged ' common assault ' , on appeal , was committed as far back as July 2009 . The conviction was obtained by trickery , in my absence , in November 2010 and was only finally completed in December 2011 , by District Judge John Charles having milked its consequences to extreme , with a ' no penalty ' . Easy , by ' carte blanche ' application of Section 36 of the Youth and Justice Criminal Evidence Act 1999 , in order to protect their ' Cardiff Cabal ' and their ' gravy train ' , anything to stop the basic right of a defendant cross examining the prosecution witnesses to obtain the truth . By August 2010 District Judge John Charles openly started this , their latest scam of denying all witnesses . It had been implemented , quietly , for many years on LiPs in Wales and spectacularly , of late , applied part way through the January 2010 ' WW1 machine gun ' trial , with the jury's mind made up by the end of the first day . Judge Nicholas Cooke QC , that June , during the ' Contempt of Court ' debacle , had also denied me eye witnesses , access to my own medical records , anything to black mail me to employ one of their own . By Charles instructing a lawyer from Newport to cross examine , using nana seconds of court time , he obtained the criminal conviction they all wanted . Well , not quite as it sounds , maybe , as I was not even there but Ihad been excused by court order , later backed by still more specialist medical reports , from both France and England . The Newport lawyer did attend but cross examined no one , as was the case with the District Judge . Wow , they thought , what a great new way to stitch up Maurice from now on ! By September 2011 Charles had applied this 2 nd November 2010 summary conviction to lock me up for three months , pending still further conspiracies by South Wales Police , anything to prejudice my long outstanding civil damages claims . Incidentally , this District Judge stated I had failed to attend that previous year's hearing there by compounding yet another conviction , one of failure to attend ' he preferring to ignore his original reasoning for a Section 36 . A conveniently placed ' Harassment ' conviction , on the old theme , was again under his control , carrying the statutory sentence of 18 weeks , by statute , again equal to my remand time to the day of conviction . Oh how convenient . So who was surprised in that after the barrister , David Gareth Evans , had slipped in , at the very last moment , the needed extra ' posted letter ' incident to comply with statute to obtain a prison term in the first place ! My throwing this 7 th allegation , served on the day of trial , on the floor of the court had its desired effect . It was noted in the official court record and even The Glamorgan Gem newspaper , for the already drafted appeal . And abuse of Section 35 in this next case ? Yes , you guessed it ; Charles refused me any cross examination again but this time by employing a lawyer from Swansea not forgetting , this time , the man was only answerable to the court and NOT to the Defendant . He was therefore ordered to at least ' go through the motions ' of ' cross examining ' . He asked both irrelevant questions and avoided the obvious ones . He , in fact , challenged no prosecution evidence what so ever , clearly caught on tape , the transcript of which is being published later . This lawyer was last seen running , with his quick £ 1 , 200 attendance fee tucked in his belt , for his Swansea train knowing , full well , much more was due now he had proved his allegiance . Ah , no , I forget . He did come back , did n't he ? Back to repeat the performance at the March 2012 Crown Court hearing , for my appeal before His Honour Judge PD Hughes QC . Again I was denied legal papers , witnesses etc. 2011 Christmas Eve was marked by my being jailed yet again , on the old theme , this time until mid May 2012 , for an alleged ' Breach of a Restraining Order ' never served on me until pushed under a police cell door after my arrest . A nine month prison sentence had been arranged , this time , well in advance , with the usual release from custody to be on the predicted last day of trial . Continuing this Section 36 abuse , however , was to be varied and worked on with much aplomb , as this next case had a lay jury with which to contend . A most unpredictable ' creature ' in this day and age of fast changing habits and social standards . Basing the prosecution's usual strategy , on the general public's apparent fear of those employed in any court building , the judge and prosecution barrister arranged , therefore , the production only of court officials and policemen to give relevant evidence to obtain a conviction . This jury and others , no doubt , risk the huge assumption that court clerks and custody officers , as employees from within a court building are to be trusted . Having stupidly replaced properly trained prison officers to do the job we now have too many ' bully boys ' with little training , little regard for the seriousness of their work that that seriously influence proceedings . It may well have been the reason for the jury's majority verdict . That was a foregone conclusion , to me , once I was allowed no legal papers in court or facilities to interview my witnesses . My websites may well give world wide exposure on just how Cardiff 's so called ' great and the good ' continue to conspire to pervert the course of justice but while the police or judges continue to closing them down others will follow . Soon , I warn you , we will be far too many to jail at any one time . A sample of what the jury may not have known about this case ( to be later expanded in links etc ) . Much needed reforms , anticipated in our judicial system , need to be considered alongside the following : I was again to be blocked from cross examining their key prosecution witness , by application of Section 36 YJCEA 1999 but allowed , at last , to cross examine others . So what is this evil lot up to this time ? The surprising CPS barrister's opening speech , late removal of a key witness and frank admission he , as Her Majesty's Crown Court representative , should not be conducting the case , he being called as a defence witness , was but part of this pitiful story . The Section 36 ' court appointed lawyer ' , to ' cross examine ' , had failed to attend despite a string of albeit clandestine but publicly recorded Crown and Cardiff Magistrate Court hearings and Orders on the matter . One was amongst the defence evidence gently secreted just anterior to my anterior anal sphincter , ready for disclosure , hopefully from a great height . HM Cardiff prison , GEOamey Custody Services and His Honour Judge John Curran QC , had refused either my legal papers or medication being in the court . To a casual observer in the public gallery , for what was the usually concocted Cardiff cabal conspiracy , this now having the potential of something similar to a Whitehall Theatre farce . For the jury to be refused , despite asking by ' jury notes ' , to see what record both court and custody services are kept , of a service of a court document , I have all seen before . So what other exhibits would the jury ' not be allowed to examine ' if I bothered to give evidence , called witnesses and obtained the cctv ? Court cases are usually won or lost , in Cardiff , based on who has the most deceitful lawyer on their side . Successful withholding of evidence , failed ' disclosure ' , is the name of the game . The veracity and mental state of presiding judge , prosecutor and or South Wales Police invariably influences the final outcome . To even contemplate prosecuting Cardiff's court , prison or police services , for civil damages , a jury trial , for example , has to first ' collapse ' , be ' withdrawn part heard ' by the CPS ' or ' be stopped ' by the presiding judge . Above all , the Defendant must never , except in rare occasion , call defence evidence if he thinks he , his family or even his long suffering friends in the public gallery , will ever get reimbursed , following acquittal , of even their bus fares . CPS barrister David Gareth Evans to then go on and admit that , yes , I had been handed a piece of paper in my cell , on 1 st December 2011 , by their star lying witness , Geoamey Custody Services manager , Leigh Barker and yes , containing District Judge John Charles ' very own ink from his fountain pen scribbled through three lines of CPS type , should of also of stopped this trial ' dead in its tracks ' . Approx copy of notes taken by Defendant's solicitor before jury trial Restraining Order - Not in Court CPS came into cell - handwritten an ( d ) print 2 / 3 lines . Refused to leave prison until given something in writing - and was then out . Went to Court and asked for copy of what convicted for . Also contacted Crown - who had file . Inc. "" derogatory "" The CPS barrister then went on to admit , Oh yes , that piece of scribbled on paper was initially sent down for Mr Kirk's ' approval ' , to draught an order and that it had been ' left behind ' in his Merthyr Tydfil office . This was all sparked off in court by my McKenzie Friend , Mr Merion Bowen , forcing the CPS to even disclose still further yet undisclosed documents ! These other drafts were uncovered in the face of the court and still the judge did not stop the trial knowing , full well , I had written for them many weeks before . If that was not enough , to stop proceedings , this issue was compounded , yet again , by the judge now actually pretending to order the disclosure of ' District Judge John Charles' hand written note to me , a small matter I had been asking for , for months , along with the overhead cctv , capturing the lot , with both custody and court contemporaneous record that MUST GO BEFORE THE JURY . Even the visiting solicitor to the prison , before the jury trial took place , took contemporaneous note of all this gross irregularity and e-mailed me his typed record . His quiet ' negotiations ' with CPS have , so far , failed to materialise the sensible way forward for all involved . Further ' Grounds of Appeal ' papers , to the London , must go via Cardiff court within the next few days . But I have to personally deliver them to Cardiff Crown Court , possibly to Derrick Hassan again ! Consider , please , the extreme lengths to which I , one of many , have again been subjected , just to obtain both court and custody contemporaneous record for an already bemused jury . Then consider the reason for recent hunger strike , due to the appalling lack of medical services by HMP and NHS ( Wales ) , as original medical records , originally falsified for MAPPA and a string of Cardiff judges to get me IPP , in 2009 , have still not been corrected nor clarified . How many times has my lawyer written to the authorities now ? Five times ? The need to stuff defence exhibits up orifices , just to get them into court and again be subjected to being beaten up in the Cardiff prison , by the very same bully boys , 395 Myers and 344 Graham , upon my return from court , is all part of their 20 year conspiracy . Masonic devil worship ? Of course it all is while those in ' authority ' , able to stamp it out , are , of course , in the very same club . All this is exactly as to what happened in the 2009 ' machine gun ' , MAPPA and 20011 ' harassment ' court cases , all displaying extreme examples of criminal conduct by the very same faceless individuals from within the Welsh Authorities protected by HM . Extended terms of custody , each time , expecting their irritation will eventually go away , has been a particularly bad error on their part and something they are , shortly , to regret . The prison , now , will not release my legal papers needed for my appeal and JR Application to the Royal Courts of Justice . His Honour Judge Lambert , in Bristol Crown Court this , week , has ordered proper disclosure to show why the 2 nd Nov 2010 ' common assault ' conviction , at last on appeal , is listed outside Wales ? Why in my absence I was convicted of failing to attend when John Charles gave the permission ? Can this English judge also influence a Welsh prison , I wonder ? I will write to Bristol Crown Court and apply for an Order to amend the never seen yet original ' Restraining Order ' to allow me to communicate with witnesses from the public gallery for grounds for Royal Courts of Justice . When I do get promise of court records HM prison Cardiff , Geo Amy Custody Services or some Cardiff judge simply reverse their previous decisions and block their release . This time all three blocked their release after the trial had started . Judge Cullen QC repeatedly witheld what he knew , stifling evidence what the jury needed and even before the trial started , promised me both legal representation and production of the essential witness with his relevant NHS documents . The judge had no intention what so ever of ever upholding those previous court orders and ran Janet Kirk and other helpers a merry dance when they tried to get hard copy from the public counter . He knew that had the JR been successful , I was refused court documents , witnesses , access to lawyer , my own legal papers or right to cross examine in both courts . If current IPCC and NHS ' investigations ' from England had been allowed to be concluded , properly , there would not have been any trial in the first place . NHS officials or their legal representatives , crowded into each and every court room during these past seven months to monitor proceedings ........ so what are they frightenend of ? In Cardiff Crown Court , incidentally , I never ever did get to see any certified true copy of an original document relied on by the prosecution . What utter nonsense again , the ' machine gun ' case all over again . David Gareth Evans , barrister for the Crown Prosecution Service , meaning the representative of Her Majesty the Queen , was no better as he also was promised immunity to criminal prosecution as part of HM Partnership . Now , he perverted the course of justice ' big time ' knowing he is cocooned in their cosy ' Cardiff Law ' . He was free to re draft as many versions of allegations , he liked , during the magistrates nonsense and in full view of the K Team , created the very exhibit that made him , of course , the vital witness to scrap the trial . Instead , the one of many draughts , the one I only saw , was left in the CPS Merthyr Tydfil Office , under lock and key . District Judge John Charles blocked my being able to cross examine anyone , at all , as far back as August 2010 . He had taken a leaf from His Honour Judge Paul Thomas QC's book , during the scandalous 2010 ' machine gun case ' , to prevent the uncovering of the south Wales Police's MAPPA conspiracy Barrister Evans told the court he had contacted the Bar Council for help when realising I was obviously calling him as my main defence witness . As the original fabricator of some fictitiously served up paperwork , down in the cells and by post , what was he doing now conducting the prosecution in the first place . The judge , mean time , sat very quiet knowing if I had objected a re trial would have me returned to prison for many more months whilst unconvicted . On the 3rd day of this circus , Geo Amy either refused to inform the judge the CPS Evans was my defence witness , now to be called , as His Honour had already blocked all others or maybe , custody staff , Diane or Jackie did get my message to court from the cells , below ? This continuing NHS ( Wales ) withholding of my medical records , with evidence recorded of ' significant brain damage ' and a possible tumour , whilst at the same time , refusing me clarification , correction or giving me treatment , is a stark warning to others that these recent criminal proceedings , in Cardiff , have now set a precedent across the UK . 1 . Police found a walking stick shot gun , contrary to Section 5 of the 1968 Fire Arms Act and machine gun ammunition , but never mentioned it in the ' 2010 machine gun court case ' now . I wonder why ? 2 . Serious assault by Geo Amy and nothing is done about it .... see ' gallery ' . 3 . David Gareth Evans , CPS barrister , performs the classic fraudulent manoevre , had it not been done in a Cardiff court , on a par with his predecessor , CPS barrister , Richard Tohmlow , who , in 2009 , had tried to get me sectioned to Ashworth , for life . THANK YOU , FRIENDS and HELPERS WORLDWIDE ! I now risk being either jailed again or quietly eliminated , anything to stop my further exposing the wickedness within the South Wales Police and Cardiff's judiciary . I 've actually seen it in the Royal Courts of Justice , too : the Judge allows for contact with the prisoner , but the staff "" looking after "" the prisoner follow somebody else 's rule . Yesterday , the judge allowed the supporters to visit Maurice in the cells . But when they arrived there , they were told that he had already left which , unfortunately , was not true ! ... Go figure : innocent until proven guilty , fair trial or "" Cardiff Law "" : make it up as you go , as long as Maurice is treated as badly as possibly possible - by virtually anybody who has the capacity to abuse their power ... Thank you for your email of 17 March asking for information about prison conditions for litigants . As your request does not fall within the terms of the Freedom of Information Act it has been dealt with it as a Treat Official enquiry and as such I have responded accordingly . I have answered each of your questions below in he order they appear : 1 . With regard the position / recognition of McKenzie friends and the Prison Service , there is no individual or specific Prison Service Order ( PSO ) or Prison Service Instruction ( PSI ) which covers this particular subject but if in connection to an adjudication guidance can be found in the Prison Discipline Procedures PSI – PSI 47 / 2011 at paragraphs 2.10 t o 2.15 under Tarrant Principles . If the matter does relate to an adjudication , the guidance states that at the start of every hearing , the adjudicator must ask the prisoner whether s / he wishes to have additional assistance and , if the prisoner expresses interest , must explain about the possibilities of legal representation , legal advice , or of assistance from a friend or adviser , also known as a McKenzie friend . Requests for legal representation , legal advice or a McKenzie friend may also be made during the adjudication . McKenzie friends may ask for arrangements to be made before the hearing for access to various facilities in order to help the accused prepare the case . However , and as may be apparent from the above , a McKenzie friend can not act as a legal representative in the same way as an appointed solicitor or barrister and therefore they do not attract the special privileges of things such as Rule 39 or legal visits . This means that in terms of visiting arrangements the format would be a matter for local discretion and in relation to documentation passed between the prisoner and their McKenzie friend these would not attract the confidential privilege attached to Rule 39 unless they had originated from a solicitor or barrister or the Courts . 2 . The decision to use the services of Emailaprisoner.com is at the sole discretion of individual Governors / Directors and there is no central directive from NOMS Headquarters that it should be made available across the prison estate . 3 . While it is perceived that the cost of prisoners' calls is relatively high this must be reflected in the fact that the telephone system ( PINphone system ) available to prisoners is viewed as a "" private network "" and the cost of calls are not currently linked to public call rates . This is because the public payphone service does not require the same level of investment as the prison PINphone system which must operate safely and securely within the prison setting . Furthermore , to reduce costs under the current contract would require a large subsidy at public expense . The PINphone system is a unique service designed to ensure safe and secure access to telephones for prisoners . 4 . Postal orders are not the only way in which monies can be sent into prisoners . NOMS policy is set out in Paragraph 15.10.2 of Prison Service Instruction 26 / 2011 , NOMS Finance Manual , this recommends that monies sent in by post should be by cheque or postal order to safeguard the sender and the recipient , but establishments can not refuse to accept cash . 5 . Litigant in Persons who are on remand are not afforded any different provisions with regard the PINphone system as convicted prisoners . However , where there are any urgent legal or compassionate circumstances , such as imminent court proceedings or a domestic crisis , Governors / Directors have the discretion to allow such calls to take place at public expense . Before agreeing to such , it must be confirmed that this need could not be met by means of a visit or letter and that the individual had insufficient credit within their PINphone account to make the call . As stated these calls will be made at public expense and such calls can be made either via an official telephone or a generic PINphone account with pre-funded credit paid for by public funds . Furthermore , while the PINphone system does not accept incoming calls , arrangements can be made to allow prisoners to exceptionally receive calls on official telephones from official bodies or the Courts . However , this would again be at the Governors discretion . Unconvicted prisoners are statutorily entitled to send two free letters every week and the cost of postage will be paid for by the local prison ( normally sent at the 2nd Class rate of postage ) . They are also entitled to a Special Letter on top of their statutory entitlement if in exceptional circumstances and this would include in connection with their defence . They can send as many privilege letters ( ones which are paid for by the prisoner ) as they wish and are allowed to send over and above their statutory entitlement of letters . The policy which covers the above guidance can be found in PSI 49 / 2011 Prisoner Communications Services . 6 . Prisoners who demonstrate that without IT there is a real risk of prejudice to their legal proceedings are issued with IT . The Governor / Director must be convinced that the prisoner's access to justice will genuinely be hampered without appropriate IT . The overriding purpose is not to provide equipment simply to make the manipulation of material easier or to facilitate swifter communications , but to prevent the impediment of access to legal documentation that might otherwise result if the equipment is not made available . For example , a piece of prosecution evidence might only be available in digital format or be so unwieldy in paper format as to be impractical and it might therefore disadvantage the prisoner if the necessary facilities were not provided . Ideally , the prisoner's solicitor would make arrangements to bring such a piece of evidence to a legal visit to enable the client to view it and then take it away again , although if the prisoner is conducting their own defence it does not follow that IT must be provided for the duration of the case - it might only be needed to view that one piece of evidence and so should be withdrawn as soon as is practicable afterwards . Governors / Directors must balance the prisoner's need against the serious threat that IT presents to security in prisons and where access is permitted must ensure that there are procedures and technical fixes in place to prevent misuse such as illicit access to the internet and the downloading / sharing of material that might endanger or cause distress to the public , staff and other prisoners , or otherwise undermine confidence in National Offender Management Service / Ministry of Justice ."	Opinion/Argumentation
926	Frank , 22 , is unemployed and still living at home with his Mother . When he finds out that Maria , a girl he has massive affection for , is in financial difficulty he attempts to win her heart by staging a daring daylight robbery - of his own house . However anything that can go wrong does , and Frank ends up wrecking his house , being exposed by his mother and shattering any chances he ever had with Maria .	Prose/Lyrical
1571	The Smart Boiler Control SystemTM can co-exist with Building Automation Systems , or it can serve as a stand-alone . Either way , it shifts the focus down to the specific equipment for targeted energy and efficiency improvements . It offers 24 / 7 access information , alert messaging , and historical analysis for the HVAC professional . Did you know that 70 % of boiler failures is due to poor operating and maintenance practices ? * No one sets wants to have poor O & M practices , but getting at all that data at critical points in time is almost impossible – until now . The The Smart Boiler Control SystemTM will give you information that , at a glance , will help you see where changes need to be made . Did you know that boilers are among the highest energy consumers in a building ? * It only stands to reason that building owners and facility engineers need to easily identify their energy and efficiency gains . Call your local Ajax Boiler Inc. rep today , and ask for your live demonstration of the Smart Boiler Control SystemTM .	Promotion
827	With the Showtime Orchestra and singers . 1 When You 're Good To Mama ( Chicago ) 2 Circle Of Life ( The Lion King ) 3 I Whistle A Happy Tune ( The King And I ) 4 Razzle Dazzle ( Fosse ) 5 Bright New Day ( Blood Brothers ) 6 I Dreamed A Dream ( Les Miserables ) 7 I 'm Still Here ( Follies ) 8 Great Balls Of Fire ( Return To The Forbidden Planet ) 9 Be Our Guest ( Beauty And The Beast ) 10 Somewhere That 's Green ( Little Shop Of Horrors ) 11 Mamma Mia ( Mamma Mia ) 12 June Is Bustin ' Out All Over ( Carousel ) 13 Singin ' In The Rain ( Singin ' In The Rain ) 14 Tomorrow ( Annie ) 15 Can You Feel The Love Tonight ( The Lion King ) 16 Dancing Queen ( Mamma Mia ) 17 There Is Nothin ' Like A Dame ( South Pacific ) 18 Shake You Tail Feather ( The Blues Brothers ) 19 I Still Believe ( Miss Saigon ) 20 The Perfect Year ( Sunset Boulevard )	Information/Explanation
973	At the start of the game , players draw lots to decide which colour will go first . Rules : The objective is to get all your own counters in the hole before your opponent does . To do this , you use your own yellow counter and your cue to hit the others in . Each time you get one of your own counters in the hole , you earn an extra hit . By getting one of your opponent's counters in the hole , you get no extra hits , and you lose your turn to your opponent . If you get the yellow counter into the hole , you are penalized by having to take one of your counters out of the hole . Hit : Lay the yellow tile on the line closest to you . Press the button on your mouse and hold it down while you aim . Draw the mouse toward you while continuing to press the button to increase the speed of your shot . Release the button to shoot .	Instruction
72	"Part 2 Chapter 4 WHEN Maheu came in after having left Étienne at Rasseneur's , he found Catherine , Zacharie , and Jeanlin seated at the table finishing their soup . On returning from the pit they were always so hungry that they ate in their damp clothes , without even cleaning themselves ; and no one was waited for , the table was laid from morning to night ; there was always someone there swallowing his portion , according to the chances of work . As he entered the door Maheu saw the provisions . He said nothing , but his uneasy face lighted up . All the morning the emptiness of the cupboard , the thought of the house without coffee and without butter , had been troubling him ; the recollection came to him painfully while he was hammering at the seam , stifled at the bottom of the cutting . What would his wife do , and what would become of them if she were to return with empty hands ? And now , here was everything ! She would tell him about it later on . He laughed with satisfaction . Catherine and Jeanlin had risen , and were taking their coffee standing ; while Zacharie , not filled with the soup , cut himself a large slice of bread and covered it with butter . Although he saw the brawn on a plate he did not touch it , for meat was for the father , when there was only enough for one . All of them had washed down their soup with a big bumper of fresh water , the good , clear drink of the fortnight's end . "" I have no beer , "" said Maheude , when the father had seated himself in his turn . "" I wanted to keep a little money . But if you would like some the little one can go and fetch a pint . "" He looked at her in astonishment . What ! she had money , too ! "" No , no , "" he said , "" I 've had a glass , it 's all right . "" And Maheu began to swallow by slow spoonfuls the mixture of bread , potatoes , leeks , and sorrel piled up in the bowl which served him as a plate . Maheude , without putting Estelle down , helped Alzire to give him all that he required , pushed near him the butter and the meat , and put his coffee on the fire to keep it quite hot . In the meanwhile , beside the fire , they began to wash themselves in the half of a barrel transformed into a tub . Catherine , whose turn came first , had filled it with warm water ; and she undressed herself tranquilly , took off her cap , her jacket , her breeches , and even her chemise , habituated to this since the age of eight , having grown up without seeing any harm in it . She only turned with her stomach to the fire , then rubbed herself vigorously with black soap . No one looked at her , even Lénore and Henri were no longer inquisitive to see how she was made . When she was clean she went up the stairs quite naked , leaving her damp chemise and other garments in a heap on the floor . But a quarrel broke out between the two brothers : Jeanlin had hastened to jump into the tub under the pretence that Zacharie was still eating ; and the latter hustled him , claiming his turn , and calling out that he was polite enough to allow Catherine to wash herself first , but he did not wish to have the rinsings of the young urchins , all the less since , when Jeanlin had been in , it would do to fill the school ink-pots . They ended by washing themselves together , also turning towards the fire , and they even helped each other , rubbing one another 's backs . Then , like their sister , they disappeared up the staircase naked . "" What a slop they do make ! "" murmured Maheude , taking up their garments from the floor to put them to dry . "" Alzire , just sponge up a bit . "" But a disturbance on the other side of the wall cut short her speech . One heard a man's oaths , a woman 's crying , a whole stampede of battle , with hollow blows that sounded like thumps of an empty gourd . "" Levaque's wife is catching it , "" Maheu peacefully stated as he scraped the bottom of his bowl with the spoon . "" It 's queer ; Bouteloup made out that the soup was ready . "" "" Ah , yes ! ready , "" said Maheude . "" I saw the vegetables on the table , not even cleaned . "" The cries redoubled , and there was a terrible push which shook the wall , followed by complete silence . Then the miner , swallowing the last spoonful , concluded , with an air of calm justice : "" If the soup is not ready , one can understand . "" And after having drunk a glassful of water , he attacked the brawn . He cut square pieces , stuck the point of his knife into them and ate them on his bread without a fork . There was no talking when the father was eating . He himself was hungry in silence ; he did not recognize the usual taste of Maigrat's provisions ; this must come from somewhere else ; however , he put no question to his wife . He only asked if the old man was still sleeping upstairs . No , the grandfather had gone out for his usual walk . And there was silence again . But the odour of the meat made Lénore and Henri lift up their heads from the floor , where they were amusing themselves with making rivulets with the spilt water . Both of them came and planted themselves near their father , the little one in front . Their eyes followed each morsel , full of hope when it set out from the plate and with an air of consternation when it was engulfed in the mouth . At last the father noticed the gluttonous desire which made their faces pale and their lips moist . "" Have the children had any of it ? "" he asked . And as his wife hesitated : "" You know I do n't like injustice . It takes away my appetite when I see them there , begging for bits . "" "" But they 've had some of it , "" she exclaimed , angrily . "" If you were to listen to them you might give them your share and the others ' , too ; they would fill themselves till they burst . Is n't it true , Alzire , that we have all had some ? "" "" Sure enough , mother , "" replied the little humpback , who under such circumstances could tell lies with the self-possession of a grown-up person . Lénore and Henri stood motionless , shocked and rebellious at such lying , when they themselves were whipped if they did not tell the truth . Their little hearts began to swell , and they longed to protest , and to say that they , at all events , were not there when the others had some . "" Get along with you , "" said the mother , driving them to the other end of the room . "" You ought to be ashamed of being always in your father's plate ; and even if he was the only one to have any , does n ' t he work , while all you , a lot of good-for-nothings , ca n ' t do anything but spend ! Yes , and the more the bigger you are . "" Maheu called them back . He seated Lénore on his left thigh , Henri on the right ; then he finished the brawn by playing at dinner with them . He cut small pieces , and each had his share . The children devoured with delight . When he had finished , he said to his wife : "" No , do n't give me my coffee . I 'm going to wash first ; and just give me a hand to throw away this dirty water . "" They took hold of the handles of the tub and emptied it into the gutter before the door , when Jeanlin came down in dry garments , breeches and a woollen blouse , too large for him , which were weary of fading on his brother's back . Seeing him slinking out through the open door , his mother stopped him . "" Where are you off to ? "" "" Over there . "" "" Over where ? Listen to me . You go and gather a dandelion salad for this evening . Eh , do you hear ? If you do n't bring a salad back you 'll have to deal with me . "" "" All right ! "" Jeanlin set out with hands in his pockets , trailing his sabots and slouching along , with his slender loins of a ten-year-old urchin , like an old miner . In his turn , Zacharie came down , more carefully dressed , his body covered by a black woollen knitted jacket with blue stripes . His father called out to him not to return late ; and he left , nodding his head with his pipe between his teeth , without replying . Again the tub was filled with warm water . Maheu was already slowly taking off his jacket . At a look , Alzire led Lénore and Henri outside to play . The father did not like washing en famille , as was practised in many houses in the settlement . He blamed no one , however ; he simply said that it was good for the children to dabble together . "" What are you doing up there ? "" cried Maheude , up the staircase . "" I 'm mending my dress that I tore yesterday , "" replied Catherine . "" All right . Do n't come down , your father is washing . "" Then Maheu and Maheude were left alone . The latter decided to place Estelle on a chair , and by a miracle , finding herself near the fire the child did not scream , but turned towards her parents the vague eyes of a little creature without intelligence . He was crouching before the tub quite naked , having first plunged his head into it , well rubbed with that black soap the constant use of which discoloured and made yellow the hair of the race . Afterwards he got into the water , lathered his chest , belly , arms , and thighs , scraping them energetically with both fists . His wife , standing by , watched him . "" Well , then , "" she began , "" I saw your eyes when you came in . You were bothered , eh ? and it eased you , those provisions . Fancy ! those Piolaine people did n't give me a sou ! Oh ! they are kind enough ; they have dressed the little ones and I was ashamed to ask them , for it crosses me to ask for things . "" She interrupted herself a moment to wedge Estelle into the chair lest she should tip over . The father continued to work away at his skin , without hastening by a question this story which interested him , patiently waiting for light . "" I must tell you that Maigrat had refused me , oh ! straight ! like one kicks a dog out of doors . Guess if I was on a spree ! They keep you warm , woollen garments , but they do n't put anything into your stomach , eh ! "" He lifted his head , still silent . Nothing at Piolaine , nothing at Maigrat's : then where ? But , as usual , she was pulling up her sleeves to wash his back and those parts which he could not himself easily reach . Besides , he liked her to soap him , to rub him everywhere till she almost broke her wrists . She took soap and worked away at his shoulders while he held himself stiff so as to resist the shock . "" Then I returned to Maigrat's , and said to him , ah , I said something to him ! And that it did n't do to have no heart , and that evil would happen to him if there were any justice . That bothered him ; he turned his eyes and would like to have got away . "" From the back she had got down to the buttocks and was pushing into the folds , not leaving any part of the body without passing over it , making him shine like her three saucepans on Saturdays after a big clean . Only she began to sweat with this tremendous exertion of her arms , so exhausted and out of breath that her words were choked . "" At last he called me an old nuisance . We shall have bread until Saturday , and the best is that he has lent me five francs . I have got butter , coffee , and chicory from him . I was even going to get the meat and potatoes there , only I saw that he was grumbling . Seven sous for the chitterlings , eighteen for the potatoes , and I 've got three francs seventy-five left for a ragout and a meat soup . Eh , I do n't think I 've wasted my morning ! "" Now she began to wipe him , plugging with a towel the parts that would not dry . Feeling happy and without thinking of the future debt , he burst out laughing and took her in his arms . "" Leave me alone , stupid ! You are damp , and wetting me . Only I 'm afraid Maigrat has ideas ---- "" She was about to speak of Catherine , but she stopped . What was the good of disturbing him ? It would only lead to endless discussion . "" What ideas ? "" he asked . "" Why , ideas of robbing us . Catherine will have to examine the bill carefully . "" He took her in his arms again , and this time did not let her go . The bath always finished in this way : she enlivened him by the hard rubbing , and then by the towels which tickled the hairs of his arms and chest . Besides , among all his mates of the settlement it was the hour for stupidities , when more children were planted than were wanted . At night all the family were about . He pushed her towards the table , jesting like a worthy man who was enjoying the only good moment of the day , calling that taking his dessert , and a dessert which cost him nothing . She , with her loose figure and breast , struggled a little for fun . "" You are stupid ! My Lord ! you are stupid ! And there 's Estelle looking at us . Wait till I turn her head . "" "" Oh , bosh ! at three months ; as if she understood ! "" When he got up Maheu simply put on a dry pair of breeches . He liked , when he was clean and had taken his pleasure with his wife , to remain naked for a while . On his white skin , the whiteness of an anaemic girl , the scratches and gashes of the coal left tattoo-marks , grafts as the miners called them ; and he was proud of them , and exhibited his big arms and broad chest shining like veined marble . In summer all the miners could be seen in this condition at their doors . He even went there for a moment now , in spite of the wet weather , and shouted out a rough joke to a comrade , whose breast was also naked , on the other side of the gardens . Others also appeared . And the children , trailing along the pathways , raised their heads and also laughed with delight at all this weary flesh of workers displayed in the open air . While drinking his coffee , without yet putting on a shirt , Maheu told his wife about the engineer's anger over the planking . He was calm and unbent , and listened with a nod of approval to the sensible advice of Maheude , who showed much common sense in such affairs . She always repeated to him that nothing was gained by struggling against the Company . She afterwards told him about Madame Hennebeau's visit . Without saying so , both of them were proud of this . "" Can I come down yet ? "" asked Catherine , from the top of the staircase . "" Yes , yes ; your father is drying himself . "" The young girl had put on her Sunday dress , an old frock of rough blue poplin , already faded and worn in the folds . She had on a very simple bonnet of black tulle . "" Hallo ! you 're dressed . Where are you going to ? "" "" I 'm going to Montsou to buy a ribbon for my bonnet . I 've taken off the old one ; it was too dirty . "" "" Have you got money , then ? "" "" No ! but Mouquette promised to lend me half a franc . "" The mother let her go . But at the door she called her back . "" Here ! do n't go and buy that ribbon at Maigrat's . He will rob you , and he will think that we are rolling in wealth . "" The father , who was crouching down before the fire to dry his neck and shoulders more quickly , contented himself with adding : "" Try not to dawdle about at night on the road . "" In the afternoon , Maheu worked in his garden . Already he had sown there potatoes , beans , and peas ; and he now set about replanting cabbage and lettuce plants , which he had kept fresh from the night before . This bit of garden furnished them with vegetables , except potatoes of which they never had enough . He understood gardening very well , and could even grow artichokes , which was treated as sheer display by the neighbours . As he was preparing the bed , Levaque just then came out to smoke a pipe in his own square , looking at the cos lettuces which Bouteloup had planted in the morning ; for without the lodger's energy in digging nothing would have grown there but nettles . And a conversation arose over the trellis . Levaque , refreshed and excited by thrashing his wife , vainly tried to take Maheu off to Rasseneur's . Why , was he afraid of a glass ? They could have a game at skittles , lounge about for a while with the mates , and then come back to dinner . That was the way of life after leaving the pit . No doubt there was no harm in that , but Maheu was obstinate ; if he did not replant his lettuces they would be faded by to-morrow . In reality he refused out of good sense , not wishing to ask a farthing from his wife out of the change of the five-franc piece . Five o ' clock was striking when Pierrone came to know if it was with Jeanlin that her Lydie had gone off . Levaque replied that it must be something of that sort , for Bébert had also disappeared , and those rascals always went prowling about together . When Maheu had quieted them by speaking of the dandelion salad , he and his comrade set about joking the young woman with the coarseness of good-natured devils . She was angry , but did not go away , in reality tickled by the strong words which made her scream with her hands to her sides . A lean woman came to her aid , stammering with anger like a clucking hen . Others in the distance on their doorsteps confided their alarms . Now the school was closed ; and all the children were running about , there was a swarm of little creatures shouting and tumbling and fighting ; while those fathers who were not at the public-house were resting in groups of three or four , crouching on their heels as they did in the mine , smoking their pipes with an occasional word in the shelter of a wall . Pierronne went off in a fury when Levaque wanted to feel if her thighs were firm ; and he himself decided to go alone to Rasseneur's , since Maheu was still planting . Twilight suddenly came on ; Maheude lit the lamp , irritated because neither her daughter nor the boys had come back . She could have guessed as much ; they never succeeded in taking together the only meal of the day at which it was possible for them to be all round the table . Then she was waiting for the dandelion salad . What could he be gathering at this hour , in this blackness of an oven , that nuisance of a child ! A salad would go so well with the stew which was simmering on the fire--potatoes , leeks , sorrel , fricasseed with fried onion . The whole house smelt of that fried onion , that good odour which gets rank so soon , and which penetrates the bricks of the settlements with such infection that one perceives it far off in the country , the violent flavour of the poor man's kitchen . Maheu , when he left the garden at nightfall , at once fell into a chair with his head against the wall . As soon as he sat down in the evening he went to sleep . The clock struck seven ; Henri and Lénore had just broken a plate in persisting in helping Alzire , who was laying the table , when Father Bonnemort came in first , in a hurry to dine and go back to the pit . Then Maheude woke up Maheu . "" Come and eat ! So much the worse ! They are big enough to find the house . The nuisance is the salad ! """	Prose/Lyrical
1560	Warm Air Heaters The majority of modern air conditioners are equipped with heating pumps which allows them to be turned into heating units . This is particularly important in winter months , when traditional heating methods , including radiators , tend to create stuffy and dust-ridden atmospheres . AC units , by creating hot air which is circulated around the room , allows users to get the benefits of warmth , while still moving the air in order to prevent dust and allergies . These air conditioning units , which are often called HVAC ( Heating and Ventilation Air Conditioning ) units , can be much more efficient than traditional radiators in creating a warm environment for offices and shops . In winter , AC units can be turned into heaters by reversing the processes usually used to cool air . The conditioner , which usually takes heat from the atmosphere , now evaporates this heat into the room , while the evaporator , usually expelling cold air into the room , now condenses the heat from indoors , warming it up before it is released . Therefore , this process actually helps in removing cool air as well as heating up the room using traditional methods . By combining the two elements of an air conditioning unit to create heat in a room , the office will become warmer more quickly , and will also cost less to heat . This is because the HVAC is not expending energy in heating up air in a cool environment . Instead , it is removing that air and replacing it with heat . This should also mean that office workers feel comfortable at a lower temperature , as there is less contrast between cool airs and warmth next to the radiator . Shops will also find that using a HVAC makes the entire floor warm , rather than concentrating that heat into a few areas close to the radiators , with the rest of the room only being temperate at best . It is estimated that heating your home , and using hot water for showers , washing machines and dishwashers , can account for more than half of your annual energy use . This means that heating up even the smallest room consumes a great deal of electricity or gas , which in turn means that your energy bills are higher . As winter is commonly the season when heating prices rise , being able to warm rooms more effectively can be one solution to cutting down on energy costs . Therefore , using hot air from an AC unit is a good alternative to using radiators . Not all air conditioning units are able to supply hot air to rooms , so it is important to check that your unit has heating capacity . The heating unit will provide hot air to the room by warming air and then circulating it , creating movement which also helps to prevent the air from becoming stuffy and static , something which can happen in air which is warmed but that is allowed to remain in the same location . Air conditioning units are often ignored over the winter months , but using them to provide heat to the room can help to cut back down on energy costs for offices , homes or stores .	Information/Explanation
254	The Department commissions research and pilot projects to gain a better understanding of the local economy , and generate more effective interventions . On behalf of the Borough Partnership , we hold a budget from Neighbourhood Renewal Fund to operate a Research and Development programme ( see below ) . Reports from the programme will be published as they are completed . Research commissioned in 2003 / 04 Description Sefton 2003 Publication on the SBP Portal and on CD-ROM of a wide range of contextual measures and performance indicators to underpin the review of the Community Strategy . Merseyside Economic Model A consortium of local authorities , TMP , LSC and GoNW led by Liverpool CC has acquired a licence to the Local Economic Forecasting Model from Cambridge Econometrics / IER Warwick . It produces a range of output , value added , sectoral and employment forecasts , for both Sefton as a whole and for Atlantic Gateway SIA . LSC National Employer Skill Survey Acquired a booster sample from the national bi-annual survey for three growth sectors in Sefton : construction , maritime , and ICT . The Survey produces information on hard-to-fill vacancies , skill shortages , skill needs , training infrastructure , and the use of training providers . Sefton ICT Cluster Survey Telephone survey of ICT companies in Sefton to build a capacity register of named companies and identify key issues . Local Labour in Construction An important feasibility and options study into how Sefton can maximise the employment and other benefits of upcoming construction expenditure in the region . Jobwatch A survey by the Low Pay Unit of Jobcentre vacancies in Bootle , Crosby and Southport . Supplies information on pay rates , hours , and compliance with the National Minimum Wage . Southport Works Contribution to a major labour market study undertaken by Sefton CVS for Southport Partnership . Recommends a specialised recruitment and training intermediary for the visitor industries .	Information/Explanation
1380	"The number and diversity of threats within the past decade have created the need to pay closer attention to the safety of our educational institutions . Rampage shootings at Virginia Tech Univ. , Blacksburg , and Northern Illinois Univ. , DeKalb ; explosions from a chemical spill at Georgia Tech Univ. , Atlanta ; a bomb at the Univ. of Oklahoma , Norman ; and the devastation from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on Gulf Coast campuses , have driven home the vulnerability of our educational institutions . Schools must be ready to enhance campus preparedness for catastrophic events , from weather-related incidents to terrorism . Code compliance Not only are campus officials concerned about protecting their campuses from today's complex threats , but also about complying with new government mandates and codes . Enforced by the Dept. of Education , Washington , universities and colleges must comply with the Clery Act , which requires timely warnings to the campus community about crimes that pose an ongoing threat to students and employees . In addition , the U.S. House of Representatives passed The College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2008 , which requires colleges and universities to issue public warnings within 30 min . of an emergency . This bill is currently being reviewed by the Senate . Several governing bodies , such as the Dept. of Defense , Washington ; Dept. of Homeland Security , Washington ; and the National Fire Protection Association , Quincy , MA , have already adopted warning-system codes and requirements . Mass Notification Systems , or MNS , are defined as life-safety systems designed to alert and protect people in an emergency . They provide real-time information to people in a building , area , or site through recorded and live voice messages , as well as direction through visual signals . While campus security professionals and administrators struggle with the "" how "" and the "" what "" to communicate , campus facilities' managers and IT administrators focus on how to build the MNS . They study which MNS technologies are available to get the message out , how these technologies can be implemented and integrated with existing infrastructure and communication systems , and where the equipment and systems should be installed . Voice to text According to a report from the Univ. of California Campus Security Task Force , Oakland , CA , released in January 2008 , "" Emergency notification systems should be both layered and redundant-no single means of communication should be solely relied upon to reach the entire campus community . "" From hearing specific voice announcements on campus outdoor loudspeakers , to students receiving emergency text messages on cell phones , school administrators recognize that to effectively communicate in a timely manner , multiple communication solutions should be used , depending on the type of emergency and the campus environment . For example , campus safety experts know that e-mail ca n't reach people on athletic fields , or in classes where professors require students to silence their cell phones . To reach both of these areas , an indoor notification system and an outdoor voice-based warning system would be the most efficient and effective way to alert students or those in the area . According to the Blueprint for Safer Campuses , published by the Int ' l Assn. of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators , West Hartford , CT , communications can consist of the following layers : The MNS should be customized to meet the needs of the individual campus . It should be a modular and scalable system that is easily expanded in phases , by leveraging existing systems . Administrators can build the system one layer at a time , starting with an outdoor system or with an emergency text alerting system , and then add more layers as funds are available . The MNS should allow administrators to alert and inform people in multiple areas , using multiple languages with changing instructions , broadcast to a single floor of a building or to an entire campus , and also to send messages to multiple , geographically separated campuses for regional control . These systems must meet multiple safety industry codes and standards , including the NFPA 72-Annex E , OSHA 1910 . 165-Employee Alarm Systems , the Americans with Disabilities Act , and SAFETY Act Certification , providing legal liability protection for the university in the event of a terrorist attack . Control unit-an integrated base station that transmits emergency announcements as prerecorded or live ( microphone ) messages to any individual or group of audible devices on a campus , as well as sending commands to activate visual-notification appliances . A control unit continuously monitors the status of all radio transceivers and their associated audible and visual notification devices . Web-based emergency communication-text - and voice-messaging systems can alert tens of thousands of students , faculty , and staff . Alerts can be sent simultaneously to multiple devices , including e-mail addresses , cell phones , pagers , and other wireless devices . This dramatically increases the likelihood each student will receive the message , no matter where or when an emergency occurs . Due to possible grid power loss , all MNS components should be protected with battery back up . Other power options , which include solar panels and generators , should be considered to allow alerts to continue without interruption . With a personal alerting system , such as emergency text alerting , the system should be secured with a redundant data center . Campus administrators should be able to remotely activate critical MNS functions from a cell phone or laptop . If the primary command center were destroyed , a fixed or mobile secondary station should be set up to control the system . For improved system management and situation awareness , an MNS should be integrated directly with other command systems , and other life-safety and security systems such as chemical - and intrusion-detection systems and fire-alarm panels . MNS at work Longwood Univ. , Farmville , VA , has nearly 5,000 enrolled students , with 70 % of undergraduates living on campus . With more than 800 full - and part-time faculty , the university has 50 buildings on a 60-acre campus , and 32 off-campus buildings . Longwood Univ. officials relied on emergency contact "" phone trees "" for internal communications , and media outlets for external communications . Students outdoors or off campus could not be notified within seconds of a disaster or power outage . "" The events at Virginia Tech and other schools across the country have demonstrated the necessity to create redundant effective systems that provide information among many pathways , "" said Dan Dillon , Longwood University's emergency-management director . An MNS solution from Cooper Notification , Long Branch , NJ , that includes outdoor warning systems , emergency text messaging , and e-mail alerts , enables officials at Longwood Univ. to alert the campus community in real time , during events such as a tornado or police emergency , and offers protection for the entire campus . The university has installed six WAVES ( wireless audio-visual emergency system ) with HPSAs at highly populated on - and off-campus locations for exterior voice alerting . In an emergency , the HPSAs will broadcast a siren alert , followed by a live or recorded voice message tailored to the situation . The intrusive system has the ability to alert the entire campus or individual areas , depending on the scope of the emergency . In addition , the university has a roam secure alert network ( RSAN ) personal alerting system , also from manufacturer Cooper Notification . Known on campus as Alert Longwood , the system sends emergency text messages to students on their cell phones and e-mail to their university e-mail accounts . Cooper Notification's MNS has been successfully tested in military applications . Additionally , the WAVES outdoor warning system can be integrated into the RSAN platform for a one-system solution . System features include the ability to deliver clear , audible voice alerts to the outdoor population ; to operate on its own network , not relying on the college's infrastructure in the event of a power outage ; and to activate the system quickly and easily . A campus is a growing , evolving community . It is necessary to regularly test and evaluate the MNS , including its subsystems and procedures . The potential for disaster in a college community always exists . But the severity of events-whether natural or manmade-can be curtailed through proper application of a good mass notification system . Authors"	Information/Explanation
62	"CHAPTER V. RESULT OF THE DANGERS . Gringoire , thoroughly stunned by his fall , remained on the pavement in front of the Holy Virgin at the street corner . Little by little , he regained his senses ; at first , for several minutes , he was floating in a sort of half-somnolent revery , which was not without its charm , in which aeriel figures of the gypsy and her goat were coupled with Quasimodo's heavy fist . This state lasted but a short time . A decidedly vivid sensation of cold in the part of his body which was in contact with the pavement , suddenly aroused him and caused his spirit to return to the surface . "" Whence comes this chill ? "" he said abruptly , to himself . He then perceived that he was lying half in the middle of the gutter . "" That devil of a hunchbacked cyclops ! "" he muttered between his teeth ; and he tried to rise . But he was too much dazed and bruised ; he was forced to remain where he was . Moreover , his hand was tolerably free ; he stopped up his nose and resigned himself . "" The mud of Paris , "" he said to himself--for decidedly he thought that he was sure that the gutter would prove his refuge for the night ; and what can one do in a refuge , except dream ? -- "" the mud of Paris is particularly stinking ; it must contain a great deal of volatile and nitric salts . That , moreover , is the opinion of Master Nicholas Flamel , and of the alchemists -- "" The word "" alchemists "" suddenly suggested to his mind the idea of Archdeacon Claude Frollo . He recalled the violent scene which he had just witnessed in part ; that the gypsy was struggling with two men , that Quasimodo had a companion ; and the morose and haughty face of the archdeacon passed confusedly through his memory . "" That would be strange ! "" he said to himself . And on that fact and that basis he began to construct a fantastic edifice of hypothesis , that card-castle of philosophers ; then , suddenly returning once more to reality , "" Come ! I 'm freezing ! "" he ejaculated . The place was , in fact , becoming less and less tenable . Each molecule of the gutter bore away a molecule of heat radiating from Gringoire's loins , and the equilibrium between the temperature of his body and the temperature of the brook , began to be established in rough fashion . Quite a different annoyance suddenly assailed him . A group of children , those little bare-footed savages who have always roamed the pavements of Paris under the eternal name of _gamins_ , and who , when we were also children ourselves , threw stones at all of us in the afternoon , when we came out of school , because our trousers were not torn--a swarm of these young scamps rushed towards the square where Gringoire lay , with shouts and laughter which seemed to pay but little heed to the sleep of the neighbors . They were dragging after them some sort of hideous sack ; and the noise of their wooden shoes alone would have roused the dead . Gringoire who was not quite dead yet , half raised himself . "" Ohé , Hennequin Dandéche ! Ohè , Jehan Pincebourde ! "" they shouted in deafening tones , "" old Eustache Moubon , the merchant at the corner , has just died . We 've got his straw pallet , we 're going to have a bonfire out of it . It 's the turn of the Flemish to-day ! "" And behold , they flung the pallet directly upon Gringoire , beside whom they had arrived , without espying him . At the same time , one of them took a handful of straw and set off to light it at the wick of the good Virgin . "" S ' death ! "" growled Gringoire , "" am I going to be too warm now ? "" It was a critical moment . He was caught between fire and water ; he made a superhuman effort , the effort of a counterfeiter of money who is on the point of being boiled , and who seeks to escape . He rose to his feet , flung aside the straw pallet upon the street urchins , and fled . "" Holy Virgin ! "" shrieked the children ; "" ' tis the merchant's ghost ! "" And they fled in their turn . The straw mattress remained master of the field . Belleforet , Father Le Juge , and Corrozet affirm that it was picked up on the morrow , with great pomp , by the clergy of the quarter , and borne to the treasury of the church of Saint Opportune , where the sacristan , even as late as 1789 , earned a tolerably handsome revenue out of the great miracle of the Statue of the Virgin at the corner of the Rue Mauconseil , which had , by its mere presence , on the memorable night between the sixth and seventh of January , 1482 , exorcised the defunct Eustache Moubon , who , in order to play a trick on the devil , had at his death maliciously concealed his soul in his straw pallet ."	Prose/Lyrical
811	The wind has great power as we have all experienced on particularly windy days . It can be very destructive , ripping off roofs and toppling trees , as during hurricanes and storms . But this power can be harnessed more benevolently to generate electricity . Wind turbines use the power in the wind to drive large aerodynamic blades , similar to helicopter blades , these blades turn a generator , which generates electricity . The amount of electricity generated is related to the strength of the wind , so the stronger the wind the more electricity is generated . Wind is a clean form of electricity generation , it requires no fuel at all . So once a wind generator is operational it has very low running costs . There are draw backs , the wind does not blow all of the time , so sometimes it is not possible to generate . This intermittency of electricity supply means that there has to be a backup electricity generation capacity in the system . Wind can be used at small as well as large scale and can be sited almost anywhere , depending upon the size of the installation . Larger turbines do require open space with uninterrupted wind , but small turbines can be roof mounted or placed near a building . Large scale wind can generate at close to current market price for electricity and is cheaper than some conventional fuels .	Information/Explanation
1606	"First , Simon Cowell has put everything in to making X FactorUSAwork . He quit his jobs on theUKversion of The X Factor andBritain's Got Talent in order to concentrate solely on this new venture . Legendary music executive L.A. Reid left his comfortable number at Island Def Jam to join the team . Second , Cowell and Paula Abdul will be reunited on screen . They were last seen together when she roasted him in his Aericn Idol sendoff . But we all know they love each other really and should just get it on or get over it . Expect more bickering between the two who have been likened to an old married couple without the sex . Simon admits that he has met his match in L.A. Reid . He knew they would clash and they do . Oh boy , do they clash ! Cheryl Cole will be seen on the judging panel for the first hour of tonight's X Factor premiere . She gets a lot of air time in theL . A. segments . There appeared to be no problems with her accent , either . Look out for Xander Alexander . Inspired by "" Whitney Houston before she lost it , "" you 'll love this total drama queen . As soon as he gets on stage he starts giving Simon Cowell attitude and then cries . I love how Paula Abdul then accuses him of faking the tears , because hers are all real , of course . Anyway , Xander Alexander does n't get any further but his audition is well worth watching . You will probably have heard that there was a flasher in the X Factor USA auditions . Just in case you were thinking he must have been cut out , he pops up tonight ( I know , appalling pun ! ) . Gio Godley gives the audience a full frontal flash while stumbling his way through perhaps the most inappropriate song choice ever : I 'm a Stud . I 'm with Paula Abdul , dry heaving in the hallway over this one ! So there you have it in a nutshell : the X Factor premiere . Plenty to look forward to tonight ."	News
632	[ Back to list of True Stories ] [ Printable Verison ] New True Story - Darren's Story ( Coverage : UK Wide ) I was addicted to motorbikes from when I was 14 years old . I 'd pinch a bike , spray it , and go scrambling on the fields . I did sports at school then , so I could run away really fast . I did n't get caught . But I could n't run anywhere a few years later , when the heroin had got me . By then I was pinching cars just to pay for my drugs . The people selling only got greedier and could squeeze me . So I had to keep stealing more and more . I 've got about 20 convictions – all for theft of , or from , motor vehicles . If I nicked a car with a baby seat , that would make me think about what I was doing . But I had to think about number one because if not then I would n't get my heroin . It 's horrible I know , looking back . But at the time , I just had to get it . I was 14 years old when I first took amphetamines . It was easy to get on our estate . A gang of about 20 kids hung round together . Some grown-ups gave us drugs for free . I only took speed then . Cannabis gave me a fuzzy head . It seemed to me that all the kids took speed . At school I was always picked for sports teams . The teacher said if I carried on I 'd be a true athlete . But I messed it up . Tragedy struck my family when my sister Carrie was killed suddenly in a road accident . Later my mum and dad split up . I felt the address we lived at was unlucky for everyone . I injected the very first time I started on heroin . The first time I was rattling [ in withdrawal ] I did n't know what it was . I was bad , I did n't want to believe it was happening to me . It 's ten times worse than the ' flu . I 'd only been taking heroin for two weeks . Some people can take it for months before it becomes a habit . Heroin feels very good when you start taking it – it 's like you 're invincible . But when it gets you , then soon you have nothing left . I 'm 26 years old now . I 've got two kids at primary school that I have n't been able to offer anything much to , or to their mum – we were childhood sweethearts . I 've known her since I was 12 years old . I 've just given them a load of grief . I 've been in and out of prison . Down to Exeter and up to Liverpool – and all the ones in between . Some you can get drugs in , others you ca n't . I 've had sentences lasting a couple of years and some just a couple of months . But I feel I 've never really had any help to get off heroin . Maybe I was n't ready – but looking back sometimes I think I was . I did get some help in prison . But I could never manage to stay clean on discharge . I 'd start again more or less the next day . People offered it for free , so I 'd get hooked and would have to start pinching cars again . I 'd do cold turkey in prison . Because I was in and out of prison , I was on and off heroin . When I started taking crack cocaine , I 'd need heroin to bring me down . I was a mess . And I ca n't get my young life back now – it 's wasted . I began thinking that I 'd be better off living in prison full time . It was a better life than outside . Once I 'd got clean of heroin in prison then my sense of humour would come back and I 'd start enjoying myself and getting on with the other people . I was mixing and felt more supported in prison . The only thing that bothered me about going into prison was the thought of the withdrawal . Other than that , prison did n't scare me , I wanted it . Last year I was sent to prison five times . I was just sick of hearing the prison officers say ' see you soon ... ' I 'd heard of the DTTO ( Drug Treatment and Testing Order ) scheme from other prisoners . They 'd said it was strict . So when I was on remand I told my Probation Officer in the prison I was sick of it all , and they put me in for a DTTO . I could have walked free from court that time , as I 'd done my time on remand . Maybe that 's the difference , I made the choice about this order . Although I was back on the heroin as soon as I left prison again , after a few weeks I was put on a methadone script . I tested positive for crack and opiates for a while . Then the tests showed that I 'd kicked the crack – it took me a couple of months , it was hard but I managed . That feels like an achievement . I still had to steal to buy my stuff for a while . Where I was living was n't helping me , I could get drugs too easily . But when I 'd come out of prison , I was on the streets , so I took what accommodation I could . A housing charity worker helped me apply to get a flat . I could n't believe it when I got somewhere decent to live . I could never even keep an appointment and now I was doing things for myself . Everyone who comes to my flat says it 's gorgeous . I got it together . My mum helped me get sorted . We looked in the paper and got things second hand . I 've got a lounge , kitchen , bedroom , bathroom and there 's a hall – so it feels spacious . I 'm paying the bills okay . Mum's doing what mums do – always thinking about me , buying me food . If it was n't for my mum I would n't be alive now , it 'd all have finished me . I love her to bits . As I reduced my heroin , I did n't have to steal , and could manage to pay out about £ 10 a week for what I needed . I 'm clean of it now . On the DTTO you have to come in every day and see people . So I 've got something to focus on . I 'm mixing with different people , who are trying to make a go of things too . My biggest support have been my family who have always said that they stuck with me because they knew what I was really like , off the heroin . I need to get my life sorted out before I become involved with the children again . It 's not good for them to be messed about with their dad coming in and out , in and out , of their little lives . I have to offer more stability . When I went back to court last time for the review I got told that my attendance on the DTTO was ' magnificent ' The staff here talk to me , I get praise and also compliments . I feel listened to and I listen to others too . I 'm having adult relationships with the staff , because of who they are and also because I 'm changing . People are n't giving up on me – I 've stuck it out and come every day . I 'm going to complete this order if it kills me ! We do loads of different things like independent living skills . I 've made a real spaghetti bolognaise and lasagne . I 've done baking and made oatcakes and baked potatoes with tuna mayonnaise . We 've done positive thinking groups and setting goals . The staff say I make good contributions . My thinking style has changed . I just got burgled and although I had a brief relapse I 'm back giving negative tests . I 'm trying to deal with it as an adult now . And anyway , I 've stolen enough times from other people , so what 's gone round has come round . So I 'm the victim now . We 've done team exercises at an outdoor pursuits centre – which was great . I 've really enjoyed doing an arts project with the local college . We went to college and did a health and safety exam , we all passed and got certificates . I even go out at weekends again . It feels good to have a social life again . I am thinking about the future and work . With my knowledge of cars I could maybe be a mechanic . Although I do n't know why , I 've always wanted to be a milkman .	Opinion/Argumentation
1642	Dileep A. Rao ( born July 29 , 1973 ) is an American actor who has appeared in feature films and television series . He starred in Sam Raimi ' s horror film Drag Me to Hell ( 2009 ) , James Cameron ' s science fiction film Avatar ( 2009 ) , and Christopher Nolan ' s thriller Inception ( 2010 ) . Rao's first role after graduating was in the American premiere of Indian Ink by Tom Stoppard . Rao moved to Los Angeles and began working in regional theater including at the Berkeley Rep , South Coast Repertory , and for the Manhattan Theater Club . He competed on Jeopardy ! on June 7 , 2002 , and won $ 34 , 400 . On June 8 , 2008 , Rao was randomly selected from over 1600 entrants to play the NPR Weekend Edition Sunday puzzle on air with Will Shortz . In 2009 , he appeared in Avatar and Drag Me to Hell . He was nominated for several awards as part of the ensemble cast in Christopher Nolan ' s 2010 film Inception . He played a pharmacologist in the film .	Information/Explanation
1338	"Articles About Articles "" Articles "" has articles on news and policy in the arts , humanities and social sciences . Precis of the three most recent articles will be posted on the home page , with a brief description and a link . As articles are supplanted by more recent news , they will be moved down the list and then shifted into an archive , where they will remain accessible . We invite all CHASS Members and readers to suggest suitable articles . Your contributions and suggestions will be acknowledged . New research and practice in preventing youth violence 27 April 2010 Jenny Wilson In an Australian first , national and international experts met in Brisbane in April to discuss the latest research in the emotionally challenging field of youth sexual violence and abuse . The Symposium on Preventing Youth Sexual Violence and Abuse brought together researchers , government policy advisers , judiciary and legal professionals , police , social workers , psychologists and psychiatrists to share the latest developments in understanding , treatment and prevention . Australian expert and Griffith University criminologist , Professor Stephen Smallbone explained , "" This is a situation where young people are at risk both as victims and offenders . In Queensland alone , one in five sexual offences reported to police involve youth under 18 as the identified offender "" . While typical public policy responses are preoccupied with trying to "" fix the problem "" after it has already occurred , for example by punishing and incapacitating the offender and ameliorating the impact on the victim , Australian experts and leading international researchers , Elizabeth Letourneau ( Medical University of South Carolina ) ; Patrick Lussier ( Simon Fraser University ) ; and Michael Miner ( University of Minnesota ) , focused solidly on prevention . The Brisbane Symposium was particularly timely as Queensland amends its legislation to widen the capacity of courts to ' name and shame ' young people convicted of violent offences . Speaking in the media recently ( The Courier Mail , 6 April 2010 ) , Professor Smallbone explained how international experience introduces a note of caution into Australian policy developments , particularly Professor Letourneau's research on the effects of US youth sexual offender registration and community notification laws . "" Her research shows that these laws do not reduce the overall rate of youth sexual violence nor deter sexual or violent recidivism . Instead US registration and notification laws tend to produce the unintended effects of increasing the rate of plea bargaining ... reducing the rate of successful prosecutions for sexual offences and increasing the rate of arrests of registered youth for minor offences "" . As Director of the Griffith Youth Forensic Service ( GYFS ) , Professor Stephen Smallbone leads a team of practitioners and researchers to deliver an innovative practice model for assessment and intervention with young people who have committed sexual offences . GYFS clinical staff travel throughout Queensland , including to regional and remote locations , to conduct comprehensive assessments , prepare pre-sentence psychological assessment reports for the courts , and to deliver specialised and individualised treatment interventions in collaboration with local community partners . GYFS is a working model that demonstrates the close connection between research , policy and practice and exemplifies how research serves to shape policy and practice . "" Sexual abuse tends to elicit strong emotions and moral outrage , but good evidence and a clear head are needed if we are to reduce its occurrence . We need to respond effectively when sexual abuse happens , but we also need to be thinking about how we can prevent it from happening in the first place "" , Professor Smallbone said . "" Simplistic , black-and-white solutions such as indiscriminate naming and shaming or introducing ever more severe punishments may appeal to some sections of an outraged public , but they are a weak and ineffectual substitute for evidence-based , prevention-centred policy . "" The symposium was organised by the Griffith Youth Forensic Service ( GYFS ) and the Key Centre for Ethics , Law , Justice and Governance , part of The Griffith Institute for Social and Behavioural Research . Notes GYFS is widely recognised by the courts , police , youth justice and child safety , and has been formally recognised with an Australian Crime and Violence Prevention Award ( 2003 ) , a Queensland Child Protection Award ( 2003 ) , a Ministers Award for Excellence in Culturally Inclusive Practice ( 2006 ) , and a Ministers Award for Excellence in Collaborative Practice ( 2007 ) ."	News
691	Olive oils online from some of our favourite wine producers ... Extra virgin olive oil from some of our favourite wine producers ... Many of our wine producers produce fantastic olive oil . It has long been a tradition in Mediterranean Europe for wine estates to grow olives alongside their grapes in order to produce olive oil . We have a great selection of extra virgin olive oils from some of the very best producers in Italy , and have just added a tasty oil from one of our favourite Australian estates too - give it a try . Just like wine , good olive oil has a vintage . The green colour , fresh and fruity perfume and green , spicy flavour of the new olive oil is an unforgettable experience . Buy oilve oils online here If you would like to comment on our oilve oil selection , or have any questions , please use our contact form to drop us a line .	Promotion
617	"A month ago my friend told me she slit her wrists . I thought of how disgusting it was , and how I could n't believe anyone would actually cut their own wrists ! She told me it helped get rid of everything bad that happened . I thought to myself "" If that is true ... can I cut ? "" . She told me never to do it to myself , because I do n't deserve pain . But did she ? I was so confused . A few days later a perfect opportunity came . I was at the computer talking to her , when an empty glass fell off the computer and broke . I looked at all of the glass shards in the carpet and all over and told her it was broken . She told me to be careful picking it up . And I thought about it , and absent mindedly began picking up the pieces and throwing them away ... but then I thought about it . I put it against my skin and dragged . It was rough , and it hurt . It made a tiny line that did n't bleed . I kept doing it but then I did it again . I did it harder . Not hard enough to make a big slash ... but it was about 1 / 2 an inch , and it bled a tiny bit . Fast forward a few days later , and about 15 small cuts on my hand and arm . They got worse by the day . It looked really disgusting , but since I am BASICALLY homeschooled , I figured , so what ? My dad did n't notice , and it 's not like he would care . Then after a few days they started healing and I went back to my old school to show my friends who were "" worried "" . They did n't look bad by then , and soon they were all accusing me of trying to get attention . I read in a girl's journal how she cut her legs , and I remembered when I saw a girl I knew in P.E. ' s scars on her leg . I tried it . And these cut deeper . They did n't bleed much . Then a few days later my brother was giving me more reasons to be angry . My family life is n't what you call perfect . In fact , my mom is in jail right now . My parents got a divorce , and since then I 've tried suicide once . Did n't work . And my dad did n't care . Nobody else knew . Anyway , back to where I was . My brother threw a text book at me , and it hit my arm really hard . I was just so angry . I could n't think of anything to do . I was so angry . I wanted to hurt him . But then I thought about it , and I ran to my room , slammed the door , locked it , and cut my arm . One deep slash . And instead of thinking about my brother , I was now trying to stop the bleeding . It took away all of the anger . It just made me try to find ways to stop bleeding . It 's been a week since I last cut , and since my grandparents are coming to stay in 3 days , I 've decided not to cut . In 8 days I leave on vacation by myself .. and I 'm relieved . I wo n't be able to cut for a month , and then after that I 'm going on another trip . This may sound like cutting is good . But it 's not . I think about what I 've done and I feel genuinely sick . It 's not right in ANY way . I thought it would solve my problems but now I have more . Now my friends think I do it for attention , now my skin is disgusting and mutilated . Now I get anonymous emails telling me how stupid I am being . Now I 'm afraid of one day when I might cut too hard , or too much . I 'm afraid of going out of the house without a longsleeved shirt on . I 'm afraid of telling anyone why . This is my experience ."	Opinion/Argumentation
287	"The Aquarium in association with Blacksmoke proudly present a new edition of prints . 4th , 5th and 6th Class by James Cauty A set of three prints featuring the Queen's bust wearing a gas mask . 26 "" x 24 "" pigment prints on 260 gsm semi-gloss archival paper in a limited edition of £ 150 signed and numbered by the artist . £ 195 inc. VAT each Also available soon : BLACKOFF size , media & limitation to be confirmed Images are available on request . A version of 4th Class will be making an appearance at the Port Elliot Literary Festival . For further information click here www . p orteliotlitfest . c om / pages / framepic . h tm Born in Liverpool , the artist & musician James Cauty - cofounder of legendary bands The Orb and KLF , and art activists K-Foundation - created Blacksmoke in 2003 . It is an occasional art collective and musical group , focusing on issues of global environmental concern . The first release was a series entitled ' Blacksmoke Stamps of Mass Destruction ' in response to the war on Iraq . That artwork appeared dramatically on the front cover of The Times newspaper on the 4th June 2003 due to the fuss the Royal Mail made over an alleged breach of copyright . More recently the Royal Mail have used legal muscle to force a small London gallery to withdraw their set of prints from sale . Their request that the prints be either destroyed or given to them is still under dispute . In conjunction with the publication of this new set of prints The Aquarium will also be offering for sale a set of prints created by STOT21stCplanB . Individually titled ' Lick My Arse ' , ' Lock Him Up & Throw Away the Key the Thieving Talentless Cunt ! ' and ' We Always Hurt the Ones We Love ' these images have been badly copied from the Blacksmoke Stamps of Mass Destruction and are collectively known as the 3rd Rate Jimmy Cauty Rip-off Stamps . Little is known about STOT21stCplanB . Images available on request . For further information , images or to arrange an interview with James Cauty contact Steven Lowe - steve @ aquariumgallery . c o . u k - tel : 0207 387 8417 The Aquarium 10 Woburn Walk London WC1H 0JL United Kingdom Tel : +44 ( 0 ) 20 7387 8417"	Promotion
1664	"Rossa Matilda Richter Zazel posing with her cannon , at the Royal Aquarium , in 1877 Rossa Matilda Richter ( 1863 – 1937 ) was a circus performer and actor ( stage name , Zazel ) who became the first recorded human cannonball in 1877 , at the age of 14 , launching herself from a spring-style "" cannon "" . Richter was a child actor and got into circus-style performances as a trapeze artist . On 10 April 1877 , she incorporated a new stunt , the human cannonball . The first such performance was at the Royal Aquarium in London when she was 14 . She was fired out of a spring-style cannon , traveling 6.1 metres ( 20 ft ) and landing in a net . According to the Guinness Book of World Records , Richter was the first human cannonball , though the distinction has been contested by others who claim Ella Zuila and George Loyal , also known as "" The Australian Marvels "" , performed the act a few years prior . The cannon was invented by William Leonard Hunt , a Canadian daredevil known as "" The Great Farini "" – U.S. Patent , No. 115 , 837 was issued on 13 June 1871 to "" William Farini , now of London , England certain new and useful Apparatus for Projecting Persons and Articles into or through the Air "" ; and , further , U.S. Patent , no . 214 , 663 was issued on 22 April 1879 to "" William Leonard Hunt , of Westminster and Improvement in Theater Appliances "" – and used rubber springs to limit the distance she would travel , employing a gunpowder - based explosion only for effect . According to P. T. Barnum , who had traveled to London to see the performance , Zazel pleaded with him to take her away . Though she was the star of the act and took the physical risks , Hunt was keeping most of the money the act brought in . Poster advertising one of Zazel's performances at the Royal Aquarium Richter went on tour with Barnum's Circus , performing in France and throughout the United States . She married Barnum's manager , George Oscar Starr ( 1849 – 1915 ) – later , manager of The Crystal Palace – she was his second wife . In 1891 , Richter nearly died in an accident during a show in New Mexico , when either the net was incorrectly placed ( causing her to miss it and hit the ground ) or the net catastrophically failed . She broke her back , effectively retiring her from her career as a human cannonball , and she spent several months in a suspended full body cast . Written in 1938 , by Robert Stevenson and Roland Pertwee , directed by Stevenson , and released in 1939 , the British comedy film Young Man's Fancy was centred on Ada , an Irish human cannonball . The character of Ada was written especially for Anna Lee by Stevenson , her husband , and is "" based on Zazel , the original ' human cannon ball ' , who thrilled London audiences in the nineties by being shot from a cannon "" – however , "" for the purposes of the film ... the period has been put back to the seventies ."	Information/Explanation
258	The South Wales Caving Club Expedition to The Franche Comte ( The Jura and the Doubs ) 23rd July to 6th August 2005 Franche-Comté is the name given to the vast area of woodland which lies to the north of the French Alps in Eastern France , and stretches southward along the Swiss border for 250km , from Vosges to the Jura . The region is divided into four different départements , the Haute-Saône , Doubs , Jura and Territoire de Belfort , the first three of which all contain important cave systems . The Franche-Comte is brimming with sites of outstanding natural beauty , including Alpine meadows , lakes , cirques , waterfalls , thick forest and some of the most beautiful rivers in France . Glaciation , high rainfall and copious Spring snowmelt has encouraged plentiful erosion on the predominant Jurassic limestone landscape , resulting in a full range of karst features , including of course , several thousand cave systems . Where is it ? ... As you can probably appreciate from the map extract , the area is quite a large one . It nestles up against the Franco Swiss border immediately east of Dijon . We will be based roughly in the middle in a picturesque little town called Ornans which is located on the D67 about 20km south of Besancon . The area is probably best reached using the Dover - Calais or Folkstone - Calais crossings . A route is available which cuts south east around Reims and Dijon which negates the need to get tangled up with Paris . An alternative more elongated route swings up into Belgium and down across Luxembourg to drop back into France at Nancy . The auto routes are all free of toll on this route but it does take a little longer . A little about the local geology ..... The region can be divided into three major zones , the Mountains , the Plateau Ridges and the Lowlands . The mountains are located in the east and follow a NE-SW axis along the Swiss border . They are quite small mountains for the area , the highest peak being Cret de la Neige , at 1718m high . A few Alpine style shaft systems can be explored in this zone . Parallel with the mountains lies an extensive series of Plateau Ridges , which range in height from 900m to 400m , stepping down gradually from East to West . These gently undulating agricultural regions , are home to the majority of the caves ( including most of the major systems ) , particularly around the spectacular river gorges separating the ridges . The final region , the lowlands , occupies the north of the region , but includes only a few notable caves , formed in isolated ridges . The waters drain North-West from the eastern mountains to the Saone valley . To get there they have to cross the plateau ridges , for which there are only two possible options , via Cluses ( narrow gorges cutting through the ridges ) or via caves , which is why the majority of cave systems are found within the Plateau Ridges region . The whole region has been subject to quite severe folding and faulting , and this has had a powerful effect on cave development . Underground drainage is predominantly directed along the axis of the folds . Since the dip is generally shallow , underground streams can travel very large distances and the separation from sinks to resurgence can be considerable ( the longest positive trace is from Seignes de Passonfontaine to Source du Maine , a distance of 28km over a vertical range of nearly 500m ) . However , the narrow widths of the synclinal folds acts as a limit on overall catchment areas and consequently many major systems consist of single streamways , albeit of great length . The resurgences are often large and impressive , but almost invariably flooded for a considerable distance . The feeders to these Collecteurs are predominantly vertical , simple shaft systems , of not very great depth ( commonly between 100m and 300m ) . Most peter out in mud chokes and impenetrable cracks , but a few utilise tectonic fractures to connect directly into the Collecteurs . There are probably many more of these , hidden beneath a blanket of alluvium . A third type of cave passage is found in ancient , fossil remnants , located in the higher beds . Due to the relative youth of the Jurassic formation , these are quite scarce , but typically feature large , dry tunnels , often adorned with huge , muddy formations . So what are the caves like ? ....... The caves of the Franche-Comte are generally simple in plan , with a series of vertical Dales like pots feeding long , linear streamways . This is partly due to the geology and partly due to the relative youth of the Jurassic formations . The caves are commonly wet , muddy and well-decorated , often with large formations . Jurassic limestone can be thinly-bedded and brittle , so care should be taken when climbing or traversing . The weather is generally sunny , but punctuated by sudden and severe thunderstorms . This can create real problems , for the water tends to flash through the caves very quickly . Pitch heads should be rigged as far out of potential flood water as possible and long trips into streamways are best timed to avoid the late afternoons . The vast majority of caves in the Franche-Comte are prone to flooding of one degree or another , so it is best to take some food and survival kit on most trips . On the plus side , the water is likely to drop as fast as it rises , so a few hours wait will normally allow for a safe exit . Choice of personal kit can also be difficult . Many of the dry caves can be very warm , requiring only the lightest of clothing . On the other hand , the wet caves often require full wetsuits . Over 5000 caves have been mapped , the majority of which are horizontal systems . Approximately 100 caves exceed 1km , 50 exceed 2km , and no less than 15 exceed 5km in length . No very deep caves exist , but of the vertical systems , three exceed 300m in vertical range , and more than 50 exceed 100m . The region is equally famous for cave diving and includes some of the most extensive submerged networks in Europe . Here is a short list of the sort of thing available ..... Reseau de la Verneau Traverse ( Bief-Boussets to Baudin ) - 9km long , 345m deep . One of the classic French through trips . Big stream , very flood-prone . 12 hour + trip . 4th longest cave in France ( 30km ) . In same class as PSM , Dent de Crolles , Diau , Felix Trombe i . e about as good as it gets . Includes pitches up and down and a 5m free-diveable sump ( do n't worry , can be bypassed ) . Grotte de Chauveroche - 6 km to sump with lots of swimming ( 204 pools !!! ) . Then 6 km back out . Julian Walford , who found Claonaite and Pollballiny reckons it 's the best stream cave he 's ever done . A wet-suit trip . Another French classic . Hard . Gouffre de Pourpeville - 9 km long . Entrance pitches drop into big well-decorated galleries . La Borne Aux Cassots - 15 km horizontal cave with good formations . Combination lock . Part streamway , part big pretty stuff . Gouffre de Granges-Mathieu - 25m pitch to bizarre gate ( climb over ) then lots of pretty passage to fantastically decorated final chamber . Gouffre de la Baume St Anne - Basically a big 85m deep daylight shaft much like Alum Pot . Not much else ( much like Alum Pot ) . The Dutch think it 's fab . Gouffre de Montaigu - Deepest cave in area . Impressive pitches . Gouffre de Vauvougier - Sporting . Over 200 meters deep , its pits and meanders provide numerous surprises . No pretties or big passages though . 10 hr + hard trips . Baume de la Faviere - Basically Vertical to - 229 metres Caborne de Menouille - Through trip from Gouffre du Cernon possible - but very polluted . Vertical round trip possible from resurgence , including 60m shaft . Gouffre du Mont Ratey - Superb cave . Beautiful and deep but very flood prone . Grotte du Cul de Vau - 4 km long . Underground river . Lots of swimming .. which should be enough to keep everyone going for a while . Plus - Via Ferrata adjacent to Verneau resurgence . Camping ... The campsite is booked ! We have reserved 8 pitches in the area of the site that projects out to the west ( look for 14B on the map ) . Mr Clipstone kindly carried out a reconnaissance of the site and informs us that these are the best ones with a good deal of shade and nice flat pitches . The site itself had been recommended by several well respected cavers and to boot it turns out that the Wessex mega trip this year ( 50 plus attendees ) used the same site . The url for the site is http://www.lechanet.com / . It seems to be a very tidy site with loads of amenities including ' Le Snack Bar ' and of course La Piscine . Camping on the site gives you complimentary access to the Piscine Municipal which is a few hundred metres up the road . Money , Money Money ... Until we get a better idea of numbers we have only reserved 8 pitches . We are working on the basis that people may want to share pitches and hence reduce the cost . If you would like to reserve a complete pitch then would you be so good as to forward a cheque for £ 40.00 . If you would like to share a pitch would you please forward a cheque for £ 20.00 . Cheques should be made payable to ' Cantabria Expeditions' Pitches will obviously go on a first come first served basis . If numbers require further pitch reservations I will make these reservations as and when it becomes obvious that we need them . I 'm not guaranteeing that we will get more pitches but it sounds like the area where the Wessex camped ( northernmost triangle ) is pretty open plan and although quite steep and devoid of shade will probably accommodate last minute bookings . One or two of the families have booked the mobil home accommodation available on the site ( no prizes for guessing who ! ) . If you would like to reserve one of these do let me know or speak to the campsite direct . Any further questions answered free of charge on 01202 743632 or thesydney AT btinternet . c om or gary AT dorsetland . c o . u k Gary Vaughan , The Sydney , 6 Frankland Crescent , Poole , Dorset BH14 9PX This page is © 2004-5 South Wales Caving Club . Last updated 25 August 2005 22 : 00 Contact the webmasters Site map Website history Opinions expressed on the Website are not necessarily those of the Club , Author or Webmasters - or anyone else !	Information/Explanation
339	"Luxury living is child's play The great thing about the Azia Beach Hotel in Cyprus is that it 's five-star but not formal . So take the baby and relax , says Lena Corner Published : 23 July 2006 It 's often easier to stay at home than drag a child of an awkward age away on holiday . Fifteen-month-old Ronnie is at that in-between stage where he 's just learnt to walk and is terribly excited by his new skill but also frighteningly unsteady . A younger baby is more portable because it will sit in its pram and a toddler you can leave to run off steam . Ronnie does n ' t quite do either . So when our taxi finally swept into the forecourt of the Azia Beach Hotel and Spa , after a fairly fraught four-hour flight , the relief was immense . We checked into our room and popped Ronnie in his cot just in time to crack open a couple of ice-cold Keo beers and catch a blistering red sunset over the Mediterranean from the comfort of the hot tub on our balcony . The great thing about the Azia is that it does five-star without being formal or turgid . Its brochure is emblazoned with that old "" barefoot glamour "" cliché , but here it really works . This is the kind of place where a noisy baby at the dinner table gets serenaded by a musician rather than banished to its room . Although it 's a fairly average resort set-up , with a pool complex at the centre , a couple of restaurants , gym , tennis courts etc , last year a facelift - the addition of a luxurious Elemis spa along with plenty of muted earthy tones and contemporary styling - shifted it up-market . Ronnie made himself at home immediately . In the mornings he ate under a canopy of trees in the outdoor restaurant , before taking to the shallowest waters of the pool . When the sun got too high he checked into the kids' club where Sophie and any other passing Azia staff drooled all over him as he tried to play . After a long siesta he would go for a leisurely jaunt to the nearby beach and in the evening a selection of jolly Russian baby sitters could be called upon to sing him to sleep . This left plenty of time for us to laze by the pool , or , in the evening , catch a taxi into Paphos ( a 10-minute drive away ) , where we indulged in , or rather gorged on , a 30-course fish mezze . The spa facilities were also put to good use - and it 's not just a couple of treatment rooms masquerading as a spa , it really is the full works ( voted by Grazia magazine as one of the world's 10 best new spas ) . In the adjoining yoga centre I had one of the most vigorous yoga sessions I 've ever had . Fifteen years ago , all this was nothing but a patchwork of fields covered mainly with banana trees . Antis Economides , the owner , had the foresight to buy one . Then , when he had raised a bit more money , he bought another , until he had five on which the Azia now stands . The only drawback , if it is one , is that we were so firmly ensconced in the comfort of the Azia that our sense of wanderlust was completely dampened . The west coast of Cyprus does not have the big sandy beaches of the other side ; instead it has rocks and plenty of tiny , sandy coves . One hot morning , feeling unusually energetic , we caught the number 10 bus to Coral Bay . Lovely for an hour or so , but trying to pin a hot , sticky child down to the prickly seat on the way back was n ' t relaxing . The more adventurous could hire a Jeep and head on a little further to Cape Lara , a long sweep of unspoilt sand , and see where the green turtles come in to nest . Or , better still , get off the tourist trail and head inland to the villages at the foot of the magnificent Troodos Mountains . But , as soon as you venture out , there is the Brits-abroad reality check to contend with . Take the road along the coast either to the east or west and you will come across O ' Solomon's Irish bar , the Zik Zak club , Sid's pub and any number of other Identikit tourist traps trying to lure you in with offers of beer at knockdown prices . And , as for the number of property companies vying for foreign trade , it will be a wonder if there are any Cypriots left on the island in five years . Not that any of this bothers Economides . His passion is not so much in the business of running a hotel - he leaves that to his wife and two daughters - but in the workings of his beloved plantation just outside Paphos . There , he cultivates the incredible array of plant-life that covers the Azia's gardens and also grows around 80 per cent of the fruit used by the hotel - impressive , when you consider there are 250 rooms and 15 bungalows . So as well as the striking 50ft cerise bougainvillaea that grows up the stark white frontage of the Azia , there are palm trees of a type you will never have seen before and huge bushes of lavender , which gets used in the spa . And it is these luscious gardens , which slope down to the cliff edge , that sets the Azia apart from the rest . Economides really has created a luscious oasis in a hot , rocky corner of Cyprus . Even Ronnie , as he raced from the pool to the kids' club , stopped for a split second to show his appreciation for one of the more Jurassic-looking protuberances by beating it repeatedly with his plastic spade . Argo Holidays ( 0870 066 7070 ; argoholidays . c om ) is offering seven nights at the Azia Club & Spa , Paphos , in an inland room , from £ 895 per adult , based on two sharing , and £ 269 per child aged two to 12 years sharing their parents' room , including return flights from Gatwick , transfers and b & b"	Promotion
955	"Have you forgotten your User Name or Password ? "" Do you need to unlock your User Name ? "" If you do not have a User Name and Password you will need to register now in order to use Citibank Online . You will be able to choose a User Name and Password by supplying your Citibank Card Number and e-Personal Identification Number ( e-PIN ) . The User Name is not case sensitive : for example if you choose Smith9 this is the same as if you choose smith9 . The screen keyboard appears after you enter your User Name ."	Instruction
788	Title of Research Functional characterisation of AChE variants during osteo-chondrogenesis Summary of Research Arthritis and related diseases are ultimately the consequence of damage to cartilage and bone , which prevents these tissues from functioning normally , causing pain , immobility and disability . Pioneering work from our laboratroy has shown that a protein , AChE , is produced by cells within bone and cartilage and that AChE can regulate the functional properties of these cells . However , we have also shown that AChE can exist in several different forms in the skeleton , each with unique characteristics . In this project , we will determine how these individual AChE proteins regulate the formation and function of cartilage and bone in both normal and disease conditions . This may reveal new ways in which we can manipulate the formation of skeletal tissues for the treatment of bone and joint disease .	Information/Explanation
1284	"While School is a great place to learn , play and make friends , unfortunately it 's also a great place for germs to get very well acquainted ... with your family ! Keep Your Kids Healthy This School Year 10 top reasons for the common cold It 's no coincidence that the school year and the common cold season start about the same time . Schools provide an ideal setting for spreading germs , with children indoors and in close contact for much of the day . As infected people sniffle , sneeze , and cough , cold viruses spread through the air and onto skin and surfaces like tables , doorknobs , and stair railings , where they can live for up to two hours . Kids bear the brunt of seasonal illnesses , typically picking up six to 10 colds a year compared with the two to four colds adults get , according to the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases . The Centers for Disease Control chalks up 22 million school absences each year to colds alone . The good news is that kids can greatly reduce their risk of getting or spreading a cold with healthy habits and good hygiene . These include : Washing hands thoroughly Coughing and sneezing into a tissue or sleeve , not into hands Not sharing drinks or food utensils Not rubbing one's nose and eyes Not biting fingernails or chewing on pencils Prevention For The Common Cold Wash your hands ! One of the main ways people catch colds is by rubbing their eyes or nose after touching a person or object with a cold virus . Hand-washing can help ward off the common cold and many other communicable illnesses ; however , most people do n't wash their hands well enough or often enough . The CDC recommends washing hands with soap and water for 15 to 20 seconds , or long enough to sing "" Happy Birthday "" twice . When you 're not near hand-washing facilities , alcohol-based hand sanitizers can do the trick . Younger kids may be tempted to taste the hand sanitizer , which can spread more germs and could make them sick . To prevent this , teach kids to rub their hands together until the sanitizer dries . Although many of us were taught to cover our mouths or noses with our hands when we cough or sneeze , health experts now say that this can spread germs even faster . The CDC recommends coughing or sneezing into a tissue , or into your sleeve if a tissue is not available . Happy Hand Washing Song Get The School Off To A Great Start ! In addition to avoiding germs and washing hands , your family can stay healthier during cold season by maintaining a healthy lifestyle , including getting sufficient sleep and exercise , drinking plenty of water , and eating a nutritious diet . Frequent , moderate exercise is important for good health and strong immunity . On a daily basis , encourage kids to play sports , run , bike ride or dance , all to keep their bodies fit , hearts pumping strong and minds happy . Better yet , join in on the fun yourself !"	Instruction
1059	The centre acknowledges that any intellectual property rights ( including without limitation copyright , database right , trademark , service mark and right in unpatented know-how ) which arise at any time in respect of any aspect of the NOCN Credit Framework including the units and credits within such Framework and in particular any units and credits developed and approved for use within NOCN or OCN programmes of learning , are and will be NOCN's exclusive property . Any right of the provider to use NOCN's intellectual property rights can only be the subject of a separate licence agreement between the parties . 11 CONFIDENTIALITY Each party undertakes to the other to keep confidential and not to disclose to any third party or use themselves other than for the purposes set out in this agreement any confidential or secret information belonging or relating to the other or its business affairs disclosed by the one and received by the other . This confidentiality obligation will not apply to information already in the public domain at the time of disclosure , already known or available to the receiving party through a legitimate source or required by law to be disclosed . 12 TERMINATION NOCN and the OCN will be entitled to terminate this agreement by summary notice if at any time any of the following events occur : § The centre acts in any way which may bring into disrepute the name and reputation of NOCN and / or the OCN ; § The centre makes use of any intellectual property rights of NOCN and / or the OCN other than as permitted by licence from the OCN ; § The centre ceases to trade or becomes insolvent or it or its assets become the subject of receivership , administration or liquidation or any other form of arrangement with creditors ; § The provider is in breach of any of its confidentiality obligations to NOCN and / or the OCN .	Legal
130	Some people have reported difficulty saving settings on the Google Preferences page , such as the following : The level of SafeSearch filtering The language used to display Google and your search results The way your search results are displayed Issues with your search settings are likely caused by problems with your browser cookies . Cookies are small files on your computer that contain information about your settings for specific websites . Try the following actions to clean up your cookies . After each step , see if the problem 's been resolved . Confirm that cookies are enabled on your browser . If your browser does n ' t allow cookies to be stored , your preferences ca n ' t be retrieved properly when you visit Google . See browser-specific instructions for enabling cookies . After confirming that cookies are enabled , verify your search settings on the Google Preferences page . Check settings on your computer . Many types of software can hamper your browser's ability to save your cookies and remember your settings . If you use any of the following kinds of programs , you may want to inspect how they handle cookies : Firewall , proxy , or anti-virus programs are often configured to delete cookies on a regular basis . Internet filtering software , such as programs designed to restrict underage access to adult sites , may be responsible for overriding your SafeSearch preferences . Browser modes designed for private browsing ( like incognito mode on Google Chrome ) might not allow your browser to store your settings in cookies . Try disabling this browsing mode . Clear your browser cache and cookies . This step removes your settings for all websites , but also ensures that corrupted browser files are deleted . See browser-specific instructions for deleting these files . After removing these files , go back to the Google Preferences page to reset your preferences . If you continue to experience issues , visit the Web Search Help Forum .	Instruction
345	"It is important for investors who purchase lots for resale to carefully evaluate their personal financial positions before actually selling . It may be more advantageous to lease , rather than sell , the property . A lease develops certain advantages for both the landowner and the tenant . The owner benefits by securing an income stream into the future . In addition , at the expiration of the lease , the reversionary rights to the Plot Sales are retained , as well as any improvements made thereon by the tenant . Long-term land leases also provide the landowner with an asset-the lease-that can be capitalized on . By pledging the lease as collateral , the landlord can secure cash from a lender - tax-free cash that can be used to purchase additional investments . Thus , the landlord continues to own the leased land and can expand the investment portfo - lio accordingly . The primary benefit to a land-leasing tenant is leverage : the leasehold interest acquired under a long-term land lease can be pledged as collateral for a mortgage to construct a new building . With a loan sufficient to pay for the costs of construction , the developer may be able to leverage 100 percent and avoid investing personal funds in a project . In addition , the rent paid by the tenant for the use of the land is considered an operating expense in the year that it is incurred . Thus , by paying rent on land rather than owning it , a tenant is effectively gaining the benefits of "" depreciating "" the land over the life of the lease . Remember that Plot Sales is not specifically depreciable ."	Instruction
1460	Groundbreaking Hair Restoration Procedure : Celebrity FUE Transplant Celebrities must present themselves at their best at all times because of the social pressures associated with fame . Celebrity FUE Hair Transplant , offered by Dr. Parsa Mohebi , is a type of FUE transplant with no need to shave your head , no downtime and no detectability even the first day after the procedure . In this new procedure , only a limited number of grafts are extracted in their natural groupings . This novel procedure was introduced by Dr. Mohebi for patients who do not wish to publicize the appearance of their hair transplant . FUE Transplant , also known as follicular unit extraction , is the process of collecting hair units directly and individually from the patients donor area . The hair units are extracted microscopically and evenly from the donor area after shaving the scalp on the back . Celebrity FUE Transplant is similar to the normal FUE procedure , but the patient does not need to shave the entire back of the head . This outpatient procedure takes approximately 3 to 4 hours and allows the person to maintain his / her natural hair appearance with no noticeable signs of surgery . This procedure is more gradual , because only 500 grafts are transplanted during each session . Celebrity hair loss patients can now enjoy the benefit of a gradual transformation with minimal interruption to their daily lives .	Promotion
1040	Additional Terms & Conditions for On Site Work The following amendments shall apply to the University's standard terms and conditions for work completed on site : Replacement Clause : Clause 5 is replaced in its entirety by the following : 5 INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE 5.1 The Contractor will indemnify the University fully against all claims , proceedings , actions , damages , legal costs , expenses and any other liabilities in respect of any death or personal injury or loss of or damage to property or financial loss , to the extent caused by any negligence or default arising by any act or omission by the Contractor , its staff , subcontractors , agents or representative , or anyone acting on their behalf , during the performance of the contract . 5.2 The Contractor shall effect and maintain with a reputable insurance company a policy or policies of insurance cover in respect of all risks which may be incurred by the Contractor , its Staff , agents , sub-contractors or representatives , arising out of the Contractors performance of the Contract , in respect of death or personal injury , or loss of or damage to property . Such policies shall include Professional Indemnity cover which shall cover any financial loss arising from any advice given or omitted to be given by the Contractor . 5.3 The Contractor shall hold Employers Liability insurance in respect of Staff in accordance with any legal requirement for the time being in force . 5.4 The Contractor shall produce to the University's Representative requested , copies of all insurance policies referred to in this Condition or other evidence confirming the existence and extent of the cover given by those policies , together with receipts or other evidence of payment of the latest premiums due under those policies . 5.5 The terms of any insurance or the amount of cover shall not releive the Contractor of any liabilities under the Contract . It shall be the responsibility of the Contractor to determine the amount of insurance cover that will be adequate to enable the Contractor to satisfy any liability referred to in this contract , provided that it 's public liability insurance is not less than £ 10 , 000 , 000 . Additional Clauses : 20 . CONDITIONS AFFECTING PROVISION OF SERVICES 20.1 The Contractor shall be deemed to have satisfied himself as regards the nature and extent of the Services , the means of communication with and access to the Sites , the supply of and conditions affecting labour , the suitability of University's Property and the Equipment necessary for the performance of the Services , subject to all such matters being discoverable by the Contractor . 21 . UNIVERSITYS PROPERTY 21.1 All University's Property shall remain the property of the University and shall be used in the performance of the Contract and for no other purpose without prior Approval . 21.2 On receipt of University's Property , the Contractor shall subject it to a visual inspection and such additional inspection and testing as may be necessary to check that it is not defective ; within 14 days of receipt of any item of University's Property , or such other period as may be approved , the Contractor shall notify the University in writing of any defects discovered ; within 14 days after receiving such notification , the University shall inform the Contractor of the action to be taken . 21.3 The University shall be responsible for the repair or replacement of University's Property unless the need for repair or replacement is caused by the Contractor's failure to comply with Condition 21.5 , or by the negligence or default of the Contractor . 21.4 The Contractor shall be responsible for his own costs resulting from any failure of University's Property , unless he can demonstrate that the University had caused undue delay in its replacement or repair . 21.5 The Contractor shall maintain all items of University's Property in a good and serviceable condition , fair wear and tear excepted , and in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations . 21.6 The Contractor shall be liable for any loss of or damage to any University's Property unless and to the extent that the Contractor is able to demonstrate that such loss or damage was caused or contributed to by the negligence or default of the University . 21.7 The Contractor shall not in any circumstances have a lien on an University's Property and shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the title of the University and the exclusion of any lien are brought to the attention of any third party dealing with any University's Property . 22 . EQUIPMENT 22.1 The Contractor shall provide all the Equipment necessary for the provision of the Services . 22.2 The Contractor shall maintain all items of Equipment in good and serviceable condition . 22.3 All Equipment shall be at the risk of the Contractor and the University shall have no liability for any loss of or damage to any Equipment unless and to the extent that the Contractor is able to demonstrate that such loss or damage was caused or contributed to by the negligence or default of the University 22.4 The Contractor shall provide for the haulage or carriage of Equipment to the University's Premises and its off-loading and removal if no longer required . 22.5 The University may at its option purchase any item of Equipment from the Contractor at any time , if the University considers that the item is likely to be required in the provision of the Services following expiry or termination of the Contract . The purchase price paid by the University shall be the fair market value . 23 . STAFF 23.1 All Staff shall possess the qualifications and competence appropriate to the tasks for which they are employed . 23.2 The Contractor shall provide , at all times , the number of Staff required to fulfill his obligations under the Contract . 23.3 The university is committed to equality of opportunity . The university has legal requirements under equal opportunity law and in particular commitments under the race relations ( amendment ) act . The seller will fully respect the university's equal opportunity policy and equal opportunity law . The seller will not do anything to cause the university to be in breach of its commitments . The seller will fully co-operate with any equality initiatives of the university . 24 Co-ORDINATION 24.1 The Contractor shall co-ordinate his activities in the provision of the Services with those of personnel and other contractors engaged by the University . 25 . USE OF UNIVERSITY'S PREMISES 25.1 Where the Services are performed on University Premises the Contractor shall have use of the University's premises without charge as a licensee and shall vacate those premises on completion or earlier termination of the Contract . 25.2 The Contractor shall not use the University's Premises for an purpose or activity other than the provision of the Services unless given prior approval . 25.3 Should the Contractor require modifications to the University's Premises , such modifications shall be subject to prior Approval and at the University's option be carried out by the University at the Contractors expense . The University shall undertake Approved modification work without undue delay . Ownership of such modifications shall rest with the University . 25.4 The Contractor shall not deliver any Equipment to the University's Premises outside normal working hours without prior Approval . 25.5 The Contractor shall maintain all Equipment and its place of storage within the University's Premises in a safe , serviceable and clean condition . 25.6 On the completion or earlier termination of the Contract , the Contractor shall , subject to the provisions of Condition 25.5 , remove all Equipment and shall clear away from the University's Premises all waste arising from the performance of the Services and shall leave the University's Premises in a clean and tidy condition . 25.7 Whilst on the Universitys Premises , all Staff shall comply with such rules , regulations and other requirements as may be in force in respect of the conduct of persons attending and working on the University's Premises . 26 . RIGHT OF ACCESS TO UNIVERSITY'S PREMISES 26.1 Where the Services are to be performed on the University's Premises , the University shall grant the Contractor reasonable access to the Site . 26.2 If the University gives the Contractor notice that a specifically named member of Staff shall not be admitted to the University's Premises , the Contractor shall ensure that that person shall not seek admission and shall not be admitted . 26.3 If and when so directed in writing by the University , the Contractor shall within seven days provide : a ) a list showing the name and address of every person whom the Contractor wishes to be admitted to the University's Premises and , where required by the University , every other person who is or may be involved in any other way in the performance of the Contract , the capacity in which each person is or may be so involved and any other particulars required by the University ; b ) satisfactory evidence as to the identity of each such person ; and c ) any other information about each such person , with any supporting evidence required by the University , including details of birthplace and parentage of any such person who is not a citizen of the United Kingdom by birth , or born within the United Kingdom of parents who were not citizens of the United Kingdom by birth . 26.4 Where Staff are required to have a pass for admission to the Universitys Premises , the Universitys Representative shall , subject to satisfactory completion of approval procedures , arrange for passes to be issued . 26.5 Staff who can not produce a proper pass when required to do so by any appropriate Personnel or agent of the University , or who contravene any conditions on the basis of which a pass was issued , may be refused admission to the University's Premises or required to leave those Premises if already there . 26.6 The Contractor shall promptly return any pass if at any time the University's Representative so requires or if the person for whom it was issued ceases to be involved in the performance of the Contract . The Contractor shall promptly return all passes on completion or earlier termination of the Contract . 27 . MANNER OF PROVIDING THE SERVICES 27.1 The Contractor shall perform the Services with all due care , skill and diligence , and in accordance with good industry practice . Timely provision of the Services is of the essence of the Contract . 27.2 The Services shall be performed only on Approved sites . 27.3 The Contractor shall upon instruction of the University's Representative : - Remove from the University's premises any materials which are not in accordance with the Specification and substitute proper and suitable materials . Remove and properly re-execute any work which is not in accordance with the Contract , irrespective of any previous testing or payment by the University . The Contractor shall at his own expense complete the re-executed work correctly in accordance with the Contract within such reasonable time as the University may specify . 27.4 The signing by the University's Representative of time sheets or other similar documents shall not be construed as implying the Contractors compliance with the Contract 28 STANDARDS 28.1 Materials and processes used in connection with the provision of the Services shall be in accordance with the standards set out in the : Specification . 28.2 On the request of the University's Representative , the Contractor shall provide proof to the University's satisfaction that the materials and processes used , or proposed to be used , conform to those standards . 28.3 The introduction of new methods or systems which impinge on the provision of the Services shall be subject to prior Approval . 29 . OVERTIME WORKING 29.1 The Contractor shall not normally be prevented from working reasonable overtime hours on the University's Premises if he so desires , provided that he obtains prior Approval and it is at no additional cost to the University . 30 . PROGRESS REPORTS 30.1 Where progress reports are required to be submitted under the Contract , the Contractor shall render those reports at such time and in such form as may be specified or as otherwise agreed between the Parties . 30.2 The submission and receipt of progress reports shall not prejudice the rights of either Party under the Contract . 31 . SECURITY 31.1 The Contractor shall take all measures necessary to comply with the provisions of any enactment relating to security which may be applicable to the Contractor in the performance of the Services . 31.2 The Contractor shall take all reasonable measures , by the display of notices or other appropriate means , to ensure that Staff have notice that all provisions referred to in Condition 31.1 will apply to them and will continue to apply to them , if so applicable , after the expiry or earlier termination of the Contract . 31.3 Whilst on the University's Premises , Staff shall comply with all security measures implemented by the University in respect of Personnel and other Persons attending those Premises . The University shall provide copies of its written security procedures to the Contractor on request . 31.4 Where required by the in the interests of security the University shall have the right to carry out any search of Staff or of vehicles used by the Contractor at the University's Premises . 31.5 The Contractor shall co-operate with any investigation relating security which is carried out by the University or by any person who is responsible to the University for security matters and when required by the University's Representative : a ) shall use his best endeavours to make any Staff identified by the University's Representative available to be interviewed by the University's Representative , or by a person who is responsible to the University for security matters , for the purposes of the investigation . Staff shall have the right to be accompanied by the Contractor's Representative and to be advised or represented by any other person whose attendance at the interview is acceptable to both the University's Representative and the Contractor's Representative ; and b ) shall , subject to any legal restriction on their disclosure , provide all documents , records or other material of any kind which may reasonably be required by the University or by a person who is responsible to the University for security matters , for the purposes of the investigation , so long as the provision of that material does not prevent the Contractor from performing the Services . The University shall have the right to retain any such material for use in connection with the investigation and , so far as possible , shall provide the Contractor with a copy of any material retained . 32 . HEALTH AND SAFETY 32.1 The Contractor shall promptly notify the University of any health and safety hazards which may arise in connection with the performance of the Services . 32.2 The University shall promptly notify the Contractor of any health and safety hazards which may exist or arise at the University's Premises and which may affect the Contractor in the performance of the Services . 32.3 The Contractor shall inform all Staff engaged in the provision of Services at the University's Premises of all known health and safety hazards and shall instruct those Staff in connection with any necessary safety measures . 32.4 Whilst on the University's Premises , the Contractor shall comply with any health and safety measures implemented by the University in respect of Personnel and other Persons , including but not limited to students and visitors , working on those Premises . 32.5 The Contractor shall notify the University's Representative immediately in the event of any incident occurring in the performance of the Services on the University's Premises where that incident causes any personal injury or any damage to property which could give rise to personal injury . 32.6 The Contractor shall take all measures necessary to comply with the requirements of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974and any other Acts , orders , regulations and Codes of Practice relating to health and safety , which may apply to Staff in the performance of the Services .	Legal
122	"There are several reasons why you may not see dynamic results from Google Instant . Connection speed If you 're searching from a particularly slow Internet connection , you wo n ' t see results as you type because we do n't want to slow down your search experience . Similarly , if we have historical evidence that the network you 're on tends to be slow , we 'll show you the normal search experience to prevent any possible speed issues . If you 'd prefer to see results as you type anyway , or if you do n't think your connection speed is an issue , you can opt in to seeing dynamic results whenever you 'd like . Just click the Instant link next to the search box , or visit your Preferences page . In addition , if we later identify that your connection becomes stronger , you might start to once again see results as you type . Availability and other issues It 's possible that unexpected issues prevent you from seeing results as you type . For instance , requests from your connection might fail , you might have proxy issues , or your Internet connection could drop mid-search . Try pressing Enter or clicking the "" Search "" button to see results . If you 're redirected to an error page or other results page , try refreshing the page or going back to the Google homepage . Certain queries If you 're used to seeing results as you type , note that certain types of search queries that could be inappropriate will not trigger automatic results . In these situations , you 'll see a message asking you to click Enter to perform the search . Your preferences and search behavior In addition , you wo n ' t see results appear as you type if any of the following is true : you search from a page that 's not the Google homepage or a search results page you search from your iGoogle page rather than the classic homepage you search using Google SSL you use an Internet browser that 's not one of these supported browsers : Firefox 3 and later versions , Safari 5 for Mac and later versions , Internet Explorer 8 , and Google Chrome 5 and later versions you search a Google property ( linked to in the side panel ) that does not yet support Google Instant you previously disabled autocomplete you previously opted out of Google Instant you use a Google domain or interface language that does not yet support Google Instant"	Instruction
422	"The Harvest Mouse in Cheshire - 1999-2000 Survey Introduction : Harvest Mice ( Micromys minutus Pallas ) , are currently the subject of much debate in Cheshire . Chester Zoo is initiating a breeding programme with a view to re-enforcing populations in the county . Harvest mice weave nests in monocotyledonous herbs that are difficult to find as they are woven from living grass , but become more visible in early winter as the grasses die off ( Harris & Trout 1991 ) . Suitable areas of habitat include cereal fields , rough grassland , reedbed and fen , and the Harvest Mouse can be the most abundant small mammal in wetland ( Perrow & Jowitt 1995 ) . In Britain it is most common in the South and East , but its distribution in North West England is uncertain . The West Midlands and Lancashire yielded three and two records respectively during the Mammal Society survey of the 1970s , while Cheshire , sandwiched between these two regions , had 13 records . The Cheshire records were mostly from the fringes of metres ( Harris 1979 ) . Only one record for Cheshire was found during a re-survey of the 1970s sites , but five of the 13 original sites , including Rostherne Mere ( a National Nature Reserve ) , went unsurveyed . A record of a nest in Cock's Foot grass ( Dactylis glomerata ) growing inside a tree guard in a young plantation was the only other recent record , ( 1997 , Aston ) . To investigate this apparent paucity of records in the last 20 years , a survey of the land covered by the Cheshire Wildlife Trust ( Cheshire , the Wirral , Stockport , Tameside and Trafford ) was planned for 1999 and 2000 . Methods : Methods currently employed for surveying include nest searching and stalk-zone trapping ( used here ) , hair tubes and baited tubes . Nest searching can be quantified in various ways ; in this survey , suitable habitat was searched in 30-minute blocks , recording the number of nests found per search , and the species of grass in which the nest was woven . All historical sites with adequate map references were surveyed by nest searching ; two of the most recent sites were also surveyed by stalk zone trapping . Additional sites were chosen for survey through consultation with Phase 1 habitat maps , advice from colleagues at the Trust , and requests from landowners and rangers . Trapping was carried out on a small number of sites , as there were a number of limiting factors , including the time of year , access , and the proximity of public byways . Longworth traps were placed on platforms constructed from hardboard , plastic tubing and bamboo canes . These were then placed in a grid of 20 x 3 at 10 metre intervals in areas of long grassland or reed . Trap sessions at each site lasted four days , making a total of 240 trap nights per site . Results : Signs of harvest mice were found in 24 one-km squares in Cheshire . 53 nests were found at 25 sites out of 126 sites surveyed ( 19 . 8 % ) . Table 1 Monocotyledonous herbs utilized for nest building by Harvest Mice in this survey , compared with national results from Harris ( 1979 ) : Species : Cheshire : National : number of nests % ( Harris 1979 ) Alopecurus spp. 1 1.9 % 0.1 % Arrhenatherum elatius 8 15.1 % 2.8 % Carex spp. 6 11.8 % 2.6 % Dactylis glomerata 12 22.7 % 20.7 % Deschampsia cespitosa 4 7.5 % 2.1 % Elymus repens 2 3.8 % 6.6 % Juncus spp. 2 3.8 % 1.9 % Phalaris arundinacea 16 30.2 % 13.8 % Phleum pratense 1 1.9 % 0.7 % Phragmites australis 1 1.9 % 9.9 % Other 0 0 % 38.8 % Table 2 Habitats from which Harvest Mice or their nests were recorded , in this survey , compared with national results from Harris ( 1979 ) : Habitat : Cheshire : National : No. of Records % ( Harris 1979 ) Field Edge 1 1.9 % 9.9 % Fen 31 57.4 % 5.1 % Rank Grassland 8 14.8 % n / a Reedbed 4 7.4 % 8.6 % Roadside Verge 2 3.8 % 4.5 % Stream / Riverbank 5 9.3 % 6.3 % Young Plantation 3 5.6 % 3.1 % Other 0 0 % 62.5 % For ease of comparison , "" Marsh "" from Harris ( 1979 ) was taken as "" Fen "" here . There was no corresponding habitat for "" Rank grassland "" in that study . 53 ( 98 . 1 % ) of records were nests , while only one ( 1 . 9 % ) mouse was trapped . While this seems a low yield for trapping , the other sites that were trapped yielded no records from either trapping or nest searching . In this study , all records came from land under 500 feet , and no Harvest Mice were found east of Holmes Chapel . In the 1970s survey of Britain , 90.3 % of all records came from land under 500 feet ( Harris 1979 ) , as did all 100 % from the Sheffield area between 1980 and 1996 ( Whiteley 1996 ) . Discussion : The Harvest Mouse is still present , though local in the county , despite the paucity in records over the last 20 years . The most common habitat for the mice in the county is fen ( with 57.4 % of all records ) , which occurs around the fringes of meres , along the bank of rivers and canals ( such as the river Weaver navigation ) , and in wet meadows . In contrast , Harris ( 1979 ) found 57.7 % of nest records were from "" dry habitats "" . The meres support reedbeds that dry out into Phalaris - and Carex-dominated fen beds , all habitats that support Harvest Mice . The fact that dairy grazing puts dry grassland at a premium also supports the bias towards wetlands . The Countryside Stewardship Scheme may benefit the species , by creating harvest mouse-friendly habitats such as field margins and hedgerows . A warm dry summer in 1999 may have meant that there was a large population produced that year . The increase in records may simply reflect increased surveying ; as 126 sites were surveyed during this study , resulting in 25 records ( 19 . 8 % ) , compared to one record from eight areas ( 12 . 5 % ) of suitable habitat surveyed during the 1997 re-survey ( T. Newman pers comm ) . One negative record from 1997 , at Pickmere , proved positive in 2000 . References : Harris S. ( 1979 ) History , distribution , status and habitat requirements of the Harvest Mouse ( Micromys minutus ) in Britain . Mammal Review 9 : 159-171 . Harris S. & Trout R C. ( 1991 ) Harvest mouse Micromys minutus pp 233-239 In : The Handbook of British Mammals , Eds . G B Corbet & S Harris 3rd Edition . Blackwell Scientific Publications , Oxford . Perrow M & Jowitt A ( 1995 ) What future for the Harvest Mouse ? British Wildlife 6 : 356-365 . · Whiteley D. ( 1996 ) Harvest Mice in the Sheffield Area 1980-1996 . Sorby Record 32 : 37-41 . Acknowledgements : Robert Carthy and The Cheshire Wildlife Trust wishes to acknowledge the financial support of English Nature . Thanks to P. Morris and D. W. Yalden for use of photographs ."	Information/Explanation
172	We look around the media , as we see on the news from Iraq , Afghanistan , Sierra Leone , and the conflict seems incomprehensible to us . And that 's certainly how it seemed to me when I started this project . But as a physicist , I thought , well if you give me some data , I could maybe understand this . You know , give us a go . So as a naive New Zealander I thought , well I 'll go to the Pentagon . Can you get me some information ? ( Laughter ) No. So I had to think a little harder . And I was watching the news one night in Oxford . And I looked down at the chattering heads on my channel of choice . And I saw that there was information there . There was data within the streams of news that we consume . All this noise around us actually has information . So what I started thinking was , perhaps there is something like open source intelligence here . If we can get enough of these streams of information together we can perhaps start to understand the war . So this is exactly what I did . We started bringing a team together , an interdisciplinary team of scientists , of economists , mathematicians . We brought these guys together and we started to try and solve this . We did it in three steps . The first step we did was to collect . We did 130 different sources of information -- from NGO reports to newspapers and cable news . We brought this raw data in and we filtered it . We extracted the key bits on information to build the database . That database contained the timing of attacks , the location , the size and the weapons used . It 's all in the streams of information we consume daily , we just have to know how to pull it out . And once we had this we could start doing some cool stuff . What if we were to look at the distribution of the sizes of attacks ? What would that tell us ? So we started doing this . And you can see here on the horizontal axis you 've got the number of people killed in an attack or the size of the attack . And on the vertical axis you 've got the number of attacks . So we plot data for sample on this . You see some sort of random distribution -- perhaps 67 attacks , one person was killed , or 47 attacks where seven people were killed . We did this exact same thing for Iraq . And we did n't know , for Iraq what we were going to find . It turns out what we found was pretty surprising . You take all of the conflict , all of the chaos , all of the noise , and out of that comes this precise mathematical distribution of the way attacks are ordered in this conflict . This blew our mind . Why should a conflict like Iraq have this as its fundamental signature ? Why should there be order in war ? We did n't really understand that . We thought maybe there is something special about Iraq . So we looked at a few more conflicts . We looked at Colombia , we looked at Afghanistan , and we looked at Senegal . And the same pattern emerged in each conflict . This was n ' t supposed to happen . These are different wars , with different religious factions , different political factions , and different socioeconomic problems . And yet the fundamental patterns underlying them are the same . So we went a little wider . We looked around the world at all the data we could get our hands on . From Peru to Indonesia , we studied this same pattern again . And we found that not only were the distributions these straight lines , but the slope of these lines , they clustered around this value of Alpha equals 2.5 . And we could generate an equation that could predict the likelihood of an attack . What we 're saying here is the probability of an attack killing X number of people in a country like Iraq , is equal to a constant , times the size of that attack , raised to the power of negative Alpha . And negative Alpha is the slope of that line I showed you before . So what ? This is data , statistics . What does it tell us about these conflicts ? That was a challenge we had to face as physicists . How do we explain this ? And what we really found was that Alpha if we really think about it , is the organizational structure of the insurgency . Alpha is the distribution of the sizes of attacks , which is really the distribution of the group strength carrying out the attacks . So we look at a process of group dynamics -- coalescence and fragmentation . Groups coming together . Groups breaking apart . And we start running the numbers on this . Can we simulate it ? Can we create the kind of patterns that we 're seeing in places like Iraq ? Turns out we kind of do a reasonable job . We can run these simulations . We can recreate this using a process of group dynamics to explain the patterns that we see all around the conflicts around the world . So what 's going on ? Why should these different -- seemingly different conflicts have the same patterns ? Now what I believe is going on is that the insurgent forces , they evolve over time . They adapt . And it turns out there is only one solution to fight a much stronger enemy . And if you do n't find that solution as an insurgent force , you do n't exist . So every insurgent force that is ongoing , every conflict that is ongoing , it 's going to look something like this . And that is what we think is happening . Taking it forward , how do we change it ? How do we end a war like Iraq ? What does it look like ? Alpha is the structure . It 's got a stable state at 2.5 . This is what wars look like when they continue . We 've got to change that . We can push it up . The forces become more fragmented . There is more of them , but they are weaker . Or we push it down . They 're more robust . There is less groups . But perhaps you can sit and talk to them . So this graph here , I 'm going to show you now . No one has seen this before . This is literally stuff that we 've come through last week . And we see the evolution of Alpha through time . We see it start . And we see it grow up to the stable state the wars around the world look like . And it stays there through the invasion of Falusia until the Samarra bombings in the Iraqi elections of ' 06 . And the system gets perturbed . It moves upwards to a fragmented state . This is when the surge happens . And depending on who you ask , the surge was supposed to push it up even further . The opposite happened . The groups became stronger . They became more robust . And so I 'm thinking , right , great , it 's going to keep going down . We can talk to them . We can get a solution . The opposite happened . It 's moved up again . The groups are more fragmented . And this tells me one of two things . Either we 're back where we started , and the surge has had no effect . Or finally the groups have been fragmented to the extent that we can start to think about maybe moving out . I do n't know what the answer is to that . But I know that we should be looking at the structure of the insurgency to answer that question . Thank you . ( Applause ) </content	Information/Explanation
1401	A good way to understand reinforcement learning is to consider some of the examples and possible applications that have guided its development : A master chess player makes a move . The choice is informed both by planning---anticipating possible replies and counter-replies---and by immediate , intuitive judgments of the desirability of particular positions and moves . An adaptive controller adjusts parameters of a petroleum refinery's operation in real time . The controller optimizes the yield / cost / quality tradeoff based on specified marginal costs without sticking strictly to the set points originally suggested by human engineers . A gazelle calf struggles to its feet minutes after being born . Half an hour later it is running at 30 miles per hour . A mobile robot decides whether it should enter a new room in search of more trash to collect or start trying to find its way back to its battery recharging station . It makes its decision based on how quickly and easily it has been able to find the recharger in the past . Phil prepares his breakfast . When closely examined , even this apparently mundane activity reveals itself as a complex web of conditional behavior and interlocking goal-subgoal relationships : walking to the cupboard , opening it , selecting a cereal box , then reaching for , grasping , and retrieving the box . Other complex , tuned , interactive sequences of behavior are required to obtain a bowl , spoon , and milk jug . Each step involves a series of eye movements to obtain information and to guide reaching and locomotion . Rapid judgments are continually made about how to carry the objects or whether it is better to ferry some of them to the dining table before obtaining others . Each step is guided by goals , such as grasping a spoon , or getting to the refrigerator , and is in service of other goals , such as having the spoon to eat with once the cereal is prepared and of ultimately obtaining nourishment . These examples share features that are so basic that they are easy to overlook . All involve interaction between an active decision-making agent and its environment , within which the agent seeks to achieve a goal despite uncertainty about its the environment . The agent's actions are permitted to affect the future state of the environment ( e.g. , the next chess position , the level of reservoirs of the refinery , the next location of the robot ) , thereby affecting the options and opportunities available to the agent at later times . Correct choice requires taking into account indirect , delayed consequences of actions , and thus may require foresight or planning . At the same time , in all these examples the effects of actions can not be fully predicted , and so the agent must frequently monitor its environment and react appropriately . For example , Phil must watch the milk he pours into his cereal bowl to keep it from overflowing . All these examples involve goals that are explicit in the sense that the agent can judge progress toward its goal on the basis of what it can directly sense . The chess player knows whether or not he wins , the refinery controller knows how much petroleum is being produced , the mobile robot knows when its batteries run down , and Phil knows whether or not he is enjoying his breakfast . In all of these examples the agent can use its experience to improve its performance over time . The chess player refines the intuition he uses to evaluate positions , thereby improving his play ; the gazelle calf improves the efficiency with which it can run ; Phil learns to streamline his breakfast making . The knowledge the agent brings to the task at the start---either from previous experience with related tasks or built into it by design or evolution---influences what is useful or easy to learn , but interaction with the environment is essential for adjusting behavior to exploit specific features of the task .	Information/Explanation
1274	"My daughter , Melanie is 13 and she 's a warrior ; our smiling warrior . She has fought RSD / CRPS ( Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy / Complex Regional Pain Syndrome ) a neurological dysfunction which causes chronic pain and other symptoms along with gastroparesis ( paralyzed stomach ) , syncope , fatigue , and general malaise for three and a half years . Many doctors have listened and tried to help her symptoms , while others offer nothing and shuffle her along to another specialist . She is deemed to be "" complex "" and a "" puzzle "" and we are still trying to find just the right treatment ideology , if not a better diagnosis / explanation for her symptom set . She has been through many treatments , medications , and she continues with daily physical activity that is painful but critical . She also has an implanted device to help her stomach act properly and to help symptoms which do n't respond to medication ( nausea , vomiting , reflux ) . She has learned to adapt , improvise and overcome many challenges and teaches us ... [ Read more ... ]"	Opinion/Argumentation
139	"Performance of a Contrarotating Small Wind Energy Converter 1 . Introduction Wind energy has been shown to be one of the most feasible sources of renewable energy . It presents attractive opportunities to a wide range of people , including investors and entrepreneurs . The main goal of wind energy industry is to minimize the cost of wind energy in order to make it more competitive compared to other energy sources . How to reduce the cost of wind energy is a vital engineering challenge presented by the interlocking disciplines of aerodynamics , structure , control , electrical conversion , and electronics . In fact , technologies in these related areas are still under active research and development to achieve high efficiency and low cost . In the shadows of advancing multimegawatt wind turbines is another growing sector within this industry , the small wind turbines . Small wind energy converters ( SWECs ) for urban or rural applications range in size from a few hundred watts to thousands of watts ( usually with a rated capacity of less than 100 kW ) and can be applied economically for a variety of power demands . These systems can be used in connection with an electricity transmission and distribution system , or in stand-alone applications that are not connected to the utility grid and are appropriate for homes , farms , or even entire communities . Investments in this sector are feasible not as stand-alone only , but as components of an integrated power-generating system that include various forms of energy resources . The main technical challenges for SWECs are the design of a system that has maximum efficiency in turbulent low speed winds ; ability to comply with both efficiency expectations and the requirements of grid utilities ; and have the minimum environmental and health impacts in terms of noise and vibration . Two facts characterize the urban environment for wind energy : lower annual mean wind speed ( AMWS ) compared to rural areas or to sea shores and more turbulent flow . The low AMWS is related to the uneven ground created by buildings and other features of the urban landscape , which causes wind speeds to increase with height above the ground more slowly . The turbulent flow is a result of the wind interacting with landscape obstacles , the fact that applies extra stress on the turbine blades . The challenge is to develop wind turbines that operate at lower speeds and cope with the turbulent . The wind generating technology development is leading to improved performance and efficiency . Most wind turbines are single-rotor systems , which provide simplicity , reliability , and durability . Along the years , improvements have enhanced energy conversion efficiency of these single-rotor systems . For example , blades have better aerodynamic characteristics , gears with reduced noise have better torque transmission efficiency , and alternators have better electrical efficiency . However , despite these improvements , single-rotor systems are able to convert only a small fraction of the total wind stream energy into electrical energy . Moreover , such a system requires high wind velocity ( above 4 m / s ) which is not available in many places , a part from costal regions . This low velocity and seasonal winds imply a high cost of exploitation of wind energy . Thus , the challenge lies with the design of a wind generator which can operate at lower speeds and be used in a small-scale manner in remote and rural areas . This paper investigates the performance of the SWEC basing on wind tunnel tests . The paper is organized as follows . Section 2 discusses the contrarotating concepts and provides a literature review on the subject , while Section 3 presents the theory of rotor torque and power . Section 4 describes the wind tunnel experimental setup , and Section 5 presents the rotor performance results . Finally , conclusions are drawn in Section 6 . 2 . Contrarotating Blade System The prime mover in wind energy system is the wind turbine . One prevailing trend in wind turbine technology throughout the past couple of decades has been growth in the size of the rotor to realize the advantages of scale and the generally higher winds available at greater heights . Geometrically , consistent upscaling of blade length shows that the surface stresses at the blade surface , vibratory loads , and loading noise due to aerodynamical and gravitational loads grow in proportion to the length of the blade [ 1 ] . However , an alternative mean of overcoming the limitation of the efficiency of a single-rotor system without increasing the size of the rotor and consequently the stress on blades could be through the adoption of a dual-rotor ( contrarotating ) blade system . In addition , the acceptance of wind turbines by the public depends strongly on achieving low noise levels in operation , which largely depends on the level of stress on the blades . According to Betz theory , the maximum power that can be extracted from the wind is about 59 % of the available energy in the wind when the axial wind speed is reduced by two-thirds across a single rotor disc . However , practical wind turbines convert less than 40 % of the wind energy into electrical energy . Hence , nearly 60 % of the potential wind energy escapes without being harnessed . In reality , the energy in the wake behind a single rotor is not very small . Part of this energy may be extracted further by installing a second rotor in the wake . As the wake behind the first rotor is rotating in the opposite direction to the rotational direction of the rotor , the second rotor should rotate in the same direction as the wake in order to extract efficiently the available energy in the wake . The contrarotating system is a very old concept that was initially proposed more than 100 years ago . A friend of Betz who is sometimes described as the "" father of modern wind energy collection theory , "" Hans Honneff , wrote a book on the use of contrarotation , using two rotors one behind the other , driving the two halves of an electrical generator , therefore creating a true wind turbine [ 2 ] . Currently , the contra concept is used on airplanes , boats , and submarines to increase efficiency while eliminating the asymmetrical torque faced by conventional rotors . A dual-rotor system can be described as a system consisting of two rotors separated by an appropriate distance ( Figure 1 ) . One of the rotors is rotating in counterclockwise direction and the other in clockwise direction on the same axis . The relative size as well as the appropriate distance between the two rotors should be identified for best performance . Drawbacks of the dual-rotor system come from mechanical complexity based on the fact that in order to reverse direction of rotation of one rotor , a gearbox is required . This may increase weight or maintenance and spare parts cost for the system . Based on evidence in literature , aerodynamic research is poised between experimental and computational : either the wind turbine is studied experimentally in a wind tunnel , or the turbine is investigated computationally using methods that belong to the field of computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) . The two are closely linked , and as progress is made in the development of more advanced computational fluid models , more comprehensive wind tunnel experimental data is required to validate the models . Experimental and computational research provide results for better understanding of the flow physics and enable investigation of wind energy performance , a requirement in order to adjust the design of wind turbines to the unique aerodynamic conditions in the environment . As with all methods of analysis , the CFD approach has limitations which are essentially related to turbulence modeling . Sumner et al. [ 3 ] review the development of CFD as a virtual , multiscale wind tunnel applied by the wind energy community from small to large scale . Although the cost of a CFD analysis may be comparable to that of a wind tunnel experiment , we considered the wind tunnel experimental option for the current study emphasizing on the importance of transition to turbulence effects . Typically , wind tunnel tests overstate performance , and consumers will never see the performance measured in a wind tunnel . However , such tests are good indicators of performance . To our knowledge , only a limited number of wind tunnel studies can be found in literature [ 2 , 4 ] . In order to study the streamlines and obtain the detailed information of flow around the wind turbine , a flow visualization and velocity measurement are important . Investigation [ 5 ] has been carried out for this sake . Considerable improvements in the understanding of contrarotating wind turbine system can be achieved through proper instrumentation and experimental measurements . According to [ 6 ] , the maximum power that can be extracted from a dual-rotor system increases up to 64 % of the available energy . It continues to reach 66.7 % for an infinite number of rotors [ 7 ] . A contrarotating wind turbine equipped with two 500 kW turbines performed quite well at high wind speeds . The turbine can produce 43.5 % more annual energy than a single-rotor turbine of the same type . The performance of the system can be improved if it is operated for low wind speeds at the tip-speed ratio where a maximum Cp is obtained [ 8 ] . Research studies provide sufficient evidence to look closer at the concept of contrarotating system to eventually produce quantifiable comparisons to other turbines [ 9 , 10 ] . A smaller gear ratio is needed because of higher tip speeds achieved by smaller blade length in comparison with the conventional system in case of the same power output . Energy capture in the rotor holds the greatest potential for long-term reduction of the cost of wind energy . A feasibility study [ 11 ] provides sufficient evidence to look closer at the concept of contrarotating to eventually produce quantifiable comparisons to other turbines . Their field tests showed that a dual-rotor turbine produces 43.5 % more annual energy than a single-rotor turbine of the same type . In addition , a smaller gear ratio is needed because of higher tip speeds achieved by smaller blade length in comparison with the conventional system in case of the same power output [ 12 ] . According to a field test demonstrated in California [ 13 ] , energy extraction from a wind turbine using contrarotating system increased by up to 40 % over an equivalent wind turbine with only one rotor . Power conversion efficiency was high at low rotor speeds , suggesting applicability of contrarotating turbines to large utility-scale wind turbines that rotate at 16 – 20 rpm . In addition , the bending stress on the supporting tower was reduced by the contrarotating system over the single-rotor system . This reduced bending stress results when the torques produced by two rotors counterbalance each other . The contrarotating SWEC clearly has a promise for wind energy , and after preliminary research and field studies [ 6 – 13 ] , it was decided to proceed with a small SWEC prototype for testing and evaluation . 3 . Rotor Torque and Power The motion of any fluid can be derived from the basic physical principles of mass , momentum , and energy interchange . The torque responsible for power production of the wind turbine mostly arises due to the forces produced by interaction of blades with the wind . The output power P T from a turbine rotor and the wind kinetic energy per unit time P W are given as follows : P T = T m P × ω , W = 1 2 ρ × V 3 0 × A , ( 1 ) where T m is the mechanical torque at the turbine side , ω is the angular rotation of the shaft , ρ is the air density at the hub height , V 0 is the wind velocity , and A is the swept area of the blades . If momentum equation is solved across an idealized control volume about the turbine rotor , it can be shown that the percentage of the total power available that can be extracted by a turbine is 16 / 27 or 59 % . This limit is known as the Betz limit . Therefore , the maximum power that a turbine can produce is expressed as follows [ 14 ] : P W = 1 6 1 2 7 2 ρ × V 3 0 × A. ( 2 ) Most turbines extract the maximum possible energy as defined above for lower wind speeds but gradually become less efficient as the on-coming wind speed increases and the flow condition across the blades approaches the stall condition . The rotor power coefficient C p is defined as the ratio between the rotor output power and the dynamic power of the air as shown in the following : C p = P T P W = T m × ω ( 1 / 2 ) ρ × V 3 0 × A. ( 3 ) The power coefficient is a nonlinear function of the tip speed-ratio λ , which depends on the wind velocity and the rotation speed of the shaft V λ = T i p V 0 = r × ω V 0 , ( 4 ) where r is the rotor radius . The rotor power coefficient is regarded as the energy transformation efficiency . Note that C p is usually precomputed based on the theoretically expected performance of the turbine system . The wind turbine mechanical characteristics are described by the following equation ( where the turbine rotor friction is ignored ) : T m − T g = J d ω d t , ( 5 ) where T g is the load torque , and J is the turbine inertia moment . The incoming wind flow rate should be equal to the outgoing flow rate to satisfy the mass conservation law if a control volume around a turbine is assumed . The outgoing wind-speed distribution and its direction strongly determine the turbine efficiency . Figure 2 shows the geometry of the stream tube through the disk . Neglecting fluid drags , the power extracted from the air stream can be written as 1 P = ( 6 ) where V , and V are the flow velocity components along the axis of the stream tube . The power coefficient is obtained by nondimensionalizing the above power equation as C , ( 7 ) where a is the axial induction factor . 4 . Wind Tunnel Experimental Setup In this section , laboratory measurement techniques are discussed ; however , some of the methods used are conventional and require little elaboration . 4.1 . Wind Tunnel Facility An open-return type wind tunnel is used in the present study . A contrarotating model 3-blade wind turbine was placed in the boundary-layer wind tunnel with the goal of studying power performance , turbulence effect , and flow visualization . Figure 3 shows the schematic of the wind tunnel experimental setup where the contraction and test sections are on the right hand side , and the motor and fan are in the left hand side . Air enters the fan from the laboratory through a large gate covered by a filter , held by wire meshes . The air flow is driven by a propulsion system made of an axial fan to provide the dynamic pressure for compensating viscous losses . There are smooth glass walls on both sides of the tunnel , and access is possible through the plywood ceiling and floor . Any large obstruction placed within a wind tunnel will alter the characteristics of the flow to some degree . The wind tunnel is capable of generating wind speeds up to 30 m / s. This suction type wind tunnel has a cross-section of 0.61 m width by 0.9 m height . The tunnel has a working ( test ) section of length 3.6 m . As the test section is the narrowest part of the circuit , it is also the part where the air velocity is the highest and , therefore , by Bernoulli's principle , where the pressure is the lowest . The main distinguishing feature of this wind tunnel is that it was designed to produce a low level of turbulence in the test section . Power for the tunnel comes from a three-phase AC motor of 30 hp at 1800 rpm with a maximum speed of 1170 rpm , driving a 10-bladed fan of 54 inches diameter with blade setting of 23 ° , mounted in a cylindrical steel casing . To minimise noise and vibration , the casing is supported on rubber shock mounts and is connected by flexible seals to the tunnel on either side . The air speed does not change as the air passes through the fan . The rotational speed of the fan is controlled by a regulated magnetic field and solid-state power supply . In order to control the ambient turbulence level , turbulence manipulators are placed upstream of the rotor , including a fine mesh screen and an aluminum honeycomb section . Smoothing is provided by the fine mesh screen . The honeycomb plays the role of a flow straightener . When the wind turbine is stopped , the mean velocity over the center portion of the wind tunnel is uniform and almost steady . 4.2 . Instrumentation A small model SWEC with two blade sets of 23 cm diameter and a varying distance between the blade sets of 7 – 54 cm has been built and tested over a range of operating conditions . In order to introduce some degree of uniformity into the way in which users of the wind tunnel record their data , an instrumentation system to measure and display a number of variables that are normally required for all experiments was installed . Two guide rails were used to hold the SWEC inside wind tunnel floor along the centreline using a steel mounting system . The steel mounting system ensured that the system did not move during testing . Measuring sensors were mounted at different locations of the setup . The upwind and downwind velocities are measured by pitot tubes , which use Bernoulli's principle to convert pressure to velocity readings . The tubes are attached to 2 sensors to convert pressure in volts to velocities in m / s. For measuring the rotational speed of the rotor , two infrared detector and emitter units ( photogate sensors ) were used . They were mounted behind the rotor . Measurement depends largely on a data acquisition system utilizing electronic measuring to read instantaneous power produced by the generating system , as various parameters are varied on the turbine or in the environment . The parameters varied include the distance between the two sets of blades , blade profiles , number of blades , wind speeds , and size ratios . To accomplish the objective of this test , three aspects of experimental setup are needed : mechanical , electrical , and measurement software . All sensors are powered , grounded , and connected to the data acquisition board . All wires are shielded for protection against noise . Measurements are monitored directly and instantaneously in the Graphical User Interface ( GUI ) of LabView . The user enters numerical values of the blade distance , blade pitch , and blade diameter for the front and back and the relative humidity and temperature . The circuit has 5 sets of measurements on both the front and the back of the generating system . The voltages are measured directly from the potentiometers ; these are the total voltages of the circuits . The currents are obtained by measuring the voltages from fixed resistors and dividing that by the resistance . The power is the product of the voltage and the calculated current . The rpm signals go through a frequency measurement tool in LabView and are then multiplied by 60 to obtain the angular velocity in revolutions per minute ( rpm ) . All lines of measurements are connected to the National Instruments Data Acquisition Board NIDAQ USB-6210 . Each line is connected to an analog pin which is fed into the LabView program with a USB connection to the computer . At the beginning of the measurement process , all sensors were checked and calibrated . The pitot tubes are corrected by the offset values to give zero when there is no wind in the tunnel . When starting the program , a path is requested for an Excel file to record the data ."	Information/Explanation
1011	"UCLan's fantastic level of support for international students has been rewarded by winning the Times Higher Awards for 2006 at the London Hilton Hotel last night . Read more Start a course in January 20th Anniversary celebrations in China We offer a range of courses in each of our faculties that have a January , as well as September , start . Read more UCLan will celebrate its 20 year anniversary since welcoming the first cohort of Chinese students in1986 , by hosting two special events in Shenzhen and Shanghai , this December . Read more News Headlines International excellence rewarded NEWS REPORT FROM THE INTERNATIONAL OFFICE International Centre for Volunteering and Community Action Events Visit by Prof. Raj S. Dhankar , Vice-Chancellor from Maharishi Dayanand University Rohtak , India Conference on CyberLaw in Malta 27-30 November 2006 . "" Cyber Terrorism as a New Security Threat "" in Sofia on October 27-28 , 2006 ."	News
1388	Can I Test Drive a Car ? Buying a car is a big decision for any motorist , so they should explore all of the different ways of deciding whether a car is right for them and their family . It is important for a motorist to explore a car's features , capabilities and drive experience , which can be difficult to do effectively if confined to a show-room or shopping online , which may be unsafe to shop online for a car . Many dealerships or private individuals may offer a test-drive , and there is usually no harm in asking . When considering different cars for purchase , a motorist should telephone the different dealerships to see if a test-drive can be arranged . In addition , some online car dealerships can also offer test-drives which can be booked online . Motorists should remember that if the purchase a car they will have to live with it , so they are advised not to base the purchase too heavily on the car's superficial characteristics . In addition , the customer should remember that the salesperson will always be looking for a sale , and should receive their information with this in mind . The Driving Experience When taking a test-drive , it is a good idea to have researched the model heavily so that the motorist can see if the car's driving experience lives up to the manufacturer's claims . The test-drive should be booked in for a time when the customer is not under pressure , meaning that they can fully concentrate on the driving experience . This is also useful to give he customer plenty of time to fully test the car's features . For example , it is a good idea to test the car within a variety of situations , such as motorways or suburban travel . This is can enable the driver to get a measure of the car's versatility and the extent to which it ill fit their usage , such as heavy motorway travel for someone who commutes . It is , however , important for the customer to run their planned route by the salesperson before deviating from the regular test-drive route . The motorist may also be concerned by the quality of the car's interior , which can sometimes be forgotten if they are concentrating on the road . One should explore its functionality , such as adjustable seats , leg-room , how easy the skylight is to operate etc. . The customer should not be afraid to try everything to determine how durable and user-friendly it is . For this task it is often useful to bring a passenger for the ride . Passengers can take in extra details which the driver may miss , and can account for the quality of the car's ride while sitting it the back . If the motorist is comparing different vehicles , it is important for them to give themselves the best chance of finding the best one . This can be achieved by test driving the cars in as quick a succession as possible , to compare the features most closely . If one can arrange to test more than one car in a day , this will provide a very effective comparison . If the motorist feels that the need another driver to further test the car's specification , dealerships will usually be pleased to facilitate this as they feel that they may be close to a sale . Overall , buying a new car carries a lot of responsibility , such as car insurance comparisons . Very little can be gained by rushing this process , so the motorist should use every opportunity to test the car's quality and capabilities . The driver , if they require some more information , should remember that their dealership usually be pleased to facilitate a second test-drive , as they imagine it will get them closer to a sale , there can never be any harm in telephoning to ask .	Instruction
446	"High gates : with L hand held in L , partners dance in and round to face their 1 st corner couple and make a ' gate ' with their raised L arms ( 2 steps ) . The dancing gent takes the lady facing him through the gate , R hand in R hand , and dances back towards the corner of the set to face both ladies who are now side by side ( 2 steps ) . The gent dances forward , turning both ladies underarm , his partner clockwise and his ' visitor ' anticlockwise , and turns anti-clockwise to face his partner ( 2 steps ) . His partner then dances through the gate formed by the gent and the visitor as he follows her round and the visitor dances back to place ( 2 steps ) . 8 bars 3 Lead around . Square the set . 16 bars 4 1 st side couple now dances 2 . 16 bars 5 Lead around . Square the set . 16 bars 6 2 nd top couple now dances 2 . 16 bars 7 Lead around . Square the set . 16 bars 8 2 nd side couple now dances 2 . 16 bars 9 Lead around . Square the set . Four sevens . 24 bars Fifth Figure The Stalling ( Jigs ) 112 bars 1 Lead around . Square the set . 16 bars 2 Face the wall : Top couples dance at home to finish with 1 st tops facing out of the set and 2 nd tops facing in the same direction but 1 step inside their own place . 8 bars Side couples dance at home to finish with 1 st sides in line behind 1 st tops and 2 nd sides behind 2 nd tops ( RULE - dance into the space on the R ) . 8 bars Cast off : gents dance L and ladies R to complete 2 circles and meet up after the 2 nd circle to take waist hold with own partners , leading couple first . 8 bars 3 Lead around out of the circle and back to place . 8 bars 4 Square the set : 8 bars 5 Face the wall : Side couples dance at home to finish with 1 st sides facing out of the set and 2 nd sides facing in the same direction but 1 step inside their own place . 8 bars Top couples dance at home to finish with 2 nd tops in line behind 1 st sides and 1 st tops behind 2 nd sides . 8 bars Cast off . 8 bars 6 Lead around out of the circle and back to place . Square the set . Four sevens . 24 bars Sixth Figure - The Hornpipe 160 bars 1 Quarterhouse : Taking waltz hold , couples dance 1 step into the set and 1 step out then turn 2 steps on to the next place on their R. They repeat this 4 step movement into each place and back home . 16 bars 2 House around . 8 bars 3 Dance in and out and ladies move on : partners drop hands and all face into the set . All dance 1 step into the set and 1 step back to place and repeat this movement twice ( 6 steps ) . On the last 2 steps , while the gents dance in and out , the ladies dance around the outside of the set and turn in to face the next gent on their R. 8 bars 4 Quarterhouse , with new partners . House around . Dance in and out and ladies move on . 32 bars 5 Quarterhouse , with new partners . House around . Dance in and out and ladies move on . 32 bars 6 Quarterhouse , with new partners . House around . Dance in and out and ladies move on to their own partners . 32 bars 7 Quarter house . House around . 24 bars STEP In the Third Figure , the Turn the lady step in place is danced : 1 2 3 & 2 2 3 & 3 2 3 & 4 2 3 & L Rh Rt L Rh Rt L Rh Rt L L Rh Rt L Rh Rt L Rh Rt L 4 bars , repeated once , the weight being carried by the underlined foot , or toe . SOURCE Donncha Ó Muínneacháin at his Birmingham workshop , September 1991 . Tom Quinn demonstrates a couple of variations on this set on the video "" Set Dancing Made Easy "" . In his version of the First Figure , the dancing gent drops the lady he is swinging back in front of her own partner and turns twice to reach the next lady . The ' discarded ' lady stands for 4 bars and then walks into the next place on her L. In the Third Figure , he compresses the High Gates movement by turning both ladies as soon as the visitor has danced through the first gate , so the movement has to be danced quite slowly to use the full 8 bars . In the Hornpipe , he doubles from one place into the next in the Quarterhouse , and the Dance in and out is danced by the ladies only , the gents dancing in place for 6 bars and then dancing in 1 bar to let the lady past , then out 1 bar to meet her . He also has some interesting steps , and the video is worth watching for these alone ."	Instruction
1100	"Iran This article is about the modern nation . For other uses , see Iran ( disambiguation ) . Iran is heir to one of the world's oldest civilizations , [ 18 ] [ 19 ] beginning with the formation of the Proto-Elamite and Elamite kingdoms in 3200 – 2800 BC . The area was first unified by the Iranian Medes in 625 BC , who became the dominant cultural and political power in the region . [ 4 ] Iran reached its greatest geographic extent during the Achaemenid Empire founded by Cyrus the Great in 550 BC , which at one time stretched from parts of Eastern Europe in the west , to the Indus Valley in the east , making it the largest empire the world had yet seen . [ 20 ] The empire collapsed in 330 BC following the conquests of Alexander the Great , but reemerged shortly after as the Parthian Empire . Under the Sassanid Dynasty , Iran again became one of the leading powers in the world for the next four centuries . [ 21 ] [ 22 ] Etymology The term Iran derives directly from Middle Persian Ērān , first attested in a 3rd-century inscription at Rustam Relief , with the accompanying Parthian inscription using the term Aryān , in reference to Iranians . [ 34 ] The Middle Iranian ērān and aryān are oblique plural forms of gentilic ēr - ( Middle Persian ) and ary - ( Parthian ) , both deriving from Proto-Iranian * arya - ( meaning "" Aryan "" , i.e. "" of the Iranians "" ) , [ 34 ] [ 35 ] argued to descend from Proto-Indo-European * ar-yo - , meaning "" skillful assembler "" . [ 36 ] In the Iranian languages , the gentilic is attested as a self-identifier included in ancient inscriptions and the literature of Avesta , [ 37 ] [ a ] and remains also in other Iranian ethnic names such as Alans ( Ossetic : Ир – Ir ) and Iron ( Ossetic : Ирон – Iron ) . [ 35 ] Historically , Iran has been referred to as Persia by the West , due mainly to the writings of Greek historians who called Iran Persis ( Greek : Περσίς ) , [ 38 ] meaning "" land of the Persians "" . As the most extensive interactions the Ancient Greeks had with any outsider was with the Persians , the term persisted , even long after the Persian rule in Greece . However , Persis ( Old Persian : Pārśa ; Modern Persian : Pārse ) was originally referred to a region settled by Persians in the west shore of Lake Urmia , in the 9th century BC . The settlement was then shifted to the southern end of the Zagros Mountains , and is today defined as Fars Province . In 1935 , Reza Shah requested the international community to refer to the country by its native name , Iran . As the New York Times explained at the time , "" At the suggestion of the Persian Legation in Berlin , the Tehran government , on the Persian New Year , Nowruz , March 21 , 1935 , substituted Iran for Persia as the official name of the country . "" Opposition to the name change led to the reversal of the decision , and Professor Ehsan Yarshater , editor of Encyclopædia Iranica , propagated a move to use Persia and Iran interchangeably . [ 39 ] Today , both Persia and Iran are used in cultural contexts ; although , Iran is the name used officially in political contexts . [ 40 ] Historical and cultural usage of the word Iran is not restricted to the modern state proper . [ 41 ] [ 42 ] [ 43 ] "" Greater Iran "" ( Irānzamīn or Irān e Bozorg ) [ 44 ] correspond to territories of the Iranian cultural and linguistic zones . In addition to modern Iran , it includes portions of the Caucasus , Mesopotamia , Anatolia , and Central Asia . [ 45 ] The emergence of Susa as a city , as determined by radiocarbon dating , dates back to early 4,395 BC . [ 56 ] There are dozens of prehistoric sites across the Iranian plateau , pointing to the existence of ancient cultures and urban settlements in the 4th millennium BC . [ 55 ] [ 57 ] [ 58 ] During the Bronze Age , Iran was home to several civilizations including Elam , Jiroft , and Zayande River . Elam , the most prominent of these civilizations , developed in the southwest of Iran , alongside those in Mesopotamia . The emergence of writing in Elam was paralleled to Sumer , and the Elamite cuneiform was developed since the 3rd millennium BC . [ 59 ] The Elamite Kingdom continued its existence until the emergence of the Median and Achaemenid empires . Between 3400 BC until about 2000 BC , northwestern Iran was part of the Kura-Araxes culture that stretched into the neighbouring regions of the Caucasus and Anatolia . Since the earliest 2nd millennium BC , Assyrians settled in swaths of western Iran , and incorporated the region into their territories . [ citation needed ] Modern impression of an Achaemenid cylinder seal from the 5th century BC , depicting a winged solar disc legitimizing the conquering Persian king who subdues two rampant Mesopotamian lamassu figures . From the late 10th to late 7th centuries BC , the Iranian peoples , together with the pre-Iranian kingdoms , fell under the domination of the Assyrian Empire , based in northern Mesopotamia . [ 63 ] Under king Cyaxares , the Medes and Persians entered into an alliance with Nabopolassar of Babylon , as well as the Scythians and the Cimmerians , and together they attacked the Assyrian Empire . The civil war ravaged the Assyrian Empire between 616 BC and 605 BC , thus freeing their respective peoples from three centuries of Assyrian rule . [ 63 ] The unification of the Median tribes under a single ruler in 728 BC led to the foundation of the Median Empire which , by 612 BC , controlled the whole Iran and the eastern Anatolia . [ 64 ] This marked the end of the Kingdom of Urartu as well , which was subsequently conquered and dissolved . [ 65 ] [ 66 ] In 550 BC , Cyrus the Great , son of Mandane and Cambyses I , took over the Median Empire , and founded the Achaemenid Empire by unifying other city states . The conquest of Media was a result of what is called the Persian Revolt . The brouhaha was initially triggered by the actions of the Median ruler Astyages , and was quickly spread to other provinces , as they allied with the Persians . Later conquests under Cyrus and his successors expanded the empire to include Lydia , Babylon , Egypt , parts of the Balkans and Eastern Europe proper , as well as the lands to the west of the Indus and Oxus rivers . 539 BC was the year in which Persian forces defeated the Babylonian army at Opis , and marked the end of around four centuries of Mesopotamian domination of the region with the transition from the Neo-Babylonian Period to the Achaemenid Period . Cyrus entered Babylon and presented himself as a traditional Mesopotamian monarch . Subsequent Achaemenid art and iconography reflect the influence of the new political reality in Mesopotamia . It is estimated that in 480 BC , 50 million people lived in the Achaemenid Empire . [ 67 ] [ 68 ] The empire at its peak ruled over 44 % of the world's population , the highest such figure for any empire in history . [ 69 ] In Greek history , the Achaemenid Empire is considered as the antagonist of the Greek city states , for the emancipation of slaves including the Jewish exiles in Babylon , building infrastructures such as road and postal systems , and the use of an official language , the Imperial Aramaic , throughout its territories . [ 20 ] The empire had a centralized , bureaucratic administration under the emperor , a large professional army , and civil services , inspiring similar developments in later empires . [ 70 ] [ 71 ] Furthermore , one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World , the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus , was built in the empire between 353 and 350 BC . Eventual conflict on the western borders began with the Ionian Revolt which erupted into the Greco-Persian Wars , and continued through the first half of the 5th century BC , and ended with the Persian withdrawal from all of their European territories in the Balkans and Eastern Europe proper . [ 72 ] In 334 BC , Alexander the Great invaded the Achaemenid Empire , defeating the last Achaemenid emperor , Darius III , at the Battle of Issus . Following the premature death of Alexander , Iran came under the control of the Hellenistic Seleucid Empire . In the middle of the 2nd century BC , the Parthian Empire rose to become the main power in Iran , and the century-long geopolitical arch-rivalry between Romans and Parthians began , culminating in the Roman – Parthian Wars . The Parthian Empire continued as a feudal monarchy for nearly five centuries , until 224 CE , when it was succeeded by the Sassanid Empire . [ 73 ] Together with their neighboring arch-rival , the Roman - Byzantines , they made up the world's two most dominant powers at the time , for over four centuries . [ 21 ] [ 22 ] The Sassanids established an empire within the frontiers achieved by the Achaemenids , with their capital at Ctesiphon . The Sassanid Empire of the Late Antiquity is considered as one of the most influential periods of Iran , as Iran influenced the culture of ancient Rome ( and through that as far as Western Europe ) , [ 74 ] [ 75 ] Africa , [ 76 ] China , and India , [ 77 ] and played a prominent role in the formation of both European and Asian medieval art . [ 78 ] Most of the era of both Parthian and Sassanid empires were overshadowed by the Roman-Persian Wars , which raged on their western borders at the Anatolia , the western Caucasus , Mesopotamia , and the Levant , for over 700 years . These wars exhausted both Romans and Sassanids , and led to the defeat of both at the hands of the invading Muslim Arabs . Medieval period The prolonged Byzantine-Sassanid Wars , most importantly the climactic Byzantine-Sassanid War of 602-628 , as well as the social conflict within the Sassanid Empire , opened the way for an Arab invasion to Iran in the 7th century . [ 79 ] [ 80 ] Initially defeated by the Arab Rashidun Caliphate , Iran came under the rule of the Arab caliphates of Umayyad and Abbasid . The prolonged and gradual process of the Islamization of Iran began following the conquest . Under the new Arab elite of the Rashidun and later the Umayyad caliphates , both converted ( mawali ) and non-converted ( dhimmi ) Iranians were discriminated against , being excluded from the government and military , and having to pay a special tax called Jizya . [ 81 ] [ 82 ] Gunde Shapur , home of the Academy of Gunde Shapur which was the most important medical center of the world at the time , survived after the invasion , but became known as an Islamic institute thereafter . [ 83 ] In 750 , the Abbasids overthrew the Umayyads , due mainly to the support from the mawali Iranians . [ 87 ] The mawali formed the majority of the rebel army , which was led by the Iranian general Abu Muslim . [ 88 ] [ 89 ] [ 90 ] The arrival of the Abbasid Caliphs saw a revival of Iranian culture and influence , and a move away from the imposed Arabic customs . The role of the old Arab aristocracy was gradually replaced by an Iranian bureaucracy . [ 91 ] After two centuries of the Arab rule , semi-independent and independent Iranian kingdoms such as the Tahirids , Saffarids , Samanids , and Buyids began to appear on the fringes of the declining Abbasid Caliphate . By the Samanid era in the 9th and 10th centuries , the efforts of Iranians to regain their independence had been well solidified . [ 92 ] The blossoming literature , philosophy , medicine , and art of Iran became major elements in the formation of a new age for the Iranian civilization , during the period known as the Islamic Golden Age . [ 93 ] [ 94 ] The Islamic Golden Age reached its peak by the 10th and 11th centuries , during which Iran was the main theater of the scientific activities . [ 83 ] After the 10th century , the Persian language , alongside Arabic , was used for the scientific , philosophical , historical , musical , and medical works , whereas the important Iranian writers , such as Tusi , Avicenna , Qotb od Din Shirazi , and Biruni , had major contributions in the scientific writing . The cultural revival that began in the Abbasid period led to a resurfacing of the Iranian national identity , and so earlier attempts of Arabization never succeeded in Iran . The Iranian Shuubiyah movement became a catalyst for Iranians to regain independence in their relations with the Arab invaders . [ 95 ] The most notable effect of this movement was the continuation of the Persian language attested to the epic poet Ferdowsi , now regarded as the most important figure in Iranian literature . The 10th century saw a mass migration of Turkic tribes from Central Asia into the Iranian plateau . [ 96 ] Turkic tribesmen were first used in the Abbasid army as mamluks ( slave-warriors ) , replacing Iranian and Arab elements within the army . [ 88 ] As a result , the mamluks gained a significant political power . In 999 , large portions of Iran came briefly under the rule of the Ghaznavids , whose rulers were of mamluk Turk origin , and longer subsequently under the Turkish Seljuk and Khwarezmian empires . These Turks had been Persianized and had adopted Persian models of administration and rulership . [ 96 ] The Seljuks subsequently gave rise to the Sultanate of Rum in Anatolia , while taking their thoroughly Persianized identity with them . [ 97 ] [ 98 ] The result of the adoption and patronage of Persian culture by Turkish rulers was the development of a distinct Turko-Persian tradition . In 1219 – 21 the Khwarezmian Empire suffered a devastating invasion by the Mongol army of Genghis Khan . According to Steven R. Ward , "" Mongol violence and depredations killed up to three-fourths of the population of the Iranian Plateau , possibly 10 to 15 million people . Some historians have estimated that Iran's population did not again reach its pre-Mongol levels until the mid-20th century . "" [ 99 ] Following the fracture of the Mongol Empire in 1256 , Hulagu Khan , grandson of Genghis Khan , established the Ilkhanate in Iran . In 1370 , yet another conqueror , Timur , followed the example of Hulagu , establishing the Timurid Empire which lasted for another 156 years . In 1387 , Timur ordered the complete massacre of Isfahan , reportedly killing 70,000 citizens . [ 100 ] The Ilkhans and the Timurids soon came to adopt the ways and customs of the Iranians , choosing to surround themselves with a culture that was distinctively Iranian . [ 101 ] Early modern period By the 1500s , Ismail I from Ardabil , established the Safavid Dynasty , with Tabriz as the capital . [ 96 ] Beginning with Azerbaijan , he subsequently extended his authority over all of the Iranian territories , and established an intermittent Iranian hegemony over the vast relative regions , reasserting the Iranian identity within large parts of the Greater Iran . [ 102 ] Iran was predominantly Sunni , [ 103 ] but Ismail instigated a forced conversion to the Shia branch of Islam , [ 104 ] by which the Shia Islam spread throughout the Safavid territories in the Caucasus , Iran , Anatolia , and Mesopotamia . As a result , thereof , the modern-day Iran is the only official Shia nation of the world , with it holding an absolute majority in Iran and the Republic of Azerbaijan , having there the 1st and 2nd highest number of Shia inhabitants by population percentage in the world . [ 105 ] [ 106 ] The centuries-long geopolitical and ideological rivalry between Safavid Iran and the neighboring Ottoman Empire , led to numerous Ottoman – Persian Wars . [ 99 ] The Safavid Era peaked in the reign of Abbas the Great , 1587 – 1629 , [ 99 ] [ 107 ] surpassing their Ottoman archrivals in strength , and making the empire a leading hub in Western Eurasia for the sciences and arts . The Safavid Era saw the start of mass integration from Caucasian populations into new layers of the society of Iran , as well as mass resettlement of them within the heartlands of Iran , playing a pivotal role in the history of Iran for centuries onwards . Following a gradual decline in the late 1600s and early 1700s , which was caused by the internal conflicts , the continuous wars with the Ottomans , and the foreign interference ( most notably the Russian interference ) , the Safavid rule was ended by the Pashtun rebels who besieged Isfahan and defeated Soltan Hosein in 1722 . In 1729 , Nader Shah , a chieftain and military genius from Khorasan , successfully drove out and conquered the Pashtun invaders . He subsequently took back the annexed Caucasian territories which were divided among the Ottoman and Russian authorities by the ongoing chaos in Iran . During the reign of Nader Shah , Iran reached its greatest extent since the Sassanid Empire , reestablishing the Iranian hegemony all over the Caucasus , as well as other major parts of the west and central Asia , and briefly possessing what was arguably the most powerful empire at the time . [ 24 ] Nader Shah invaded India and sacked far off Delhi by the late 1730s . His territorial expansion , as well as his military successes , went into a decline following the final campaigns in the Northern Caucasus . The assassination of Nader Shah sparked a brief period of civil war and turmoil , after which Karim Khan of the Zand Dynasty came to power in 1750 , bringing a period of relative peace and prosperity . [ 99 ] The geopolitical reach of the Zand Dynasty was limited , compared to its preceding dynasties . Many of the Iranian territories in the Caucasus gained de facto independence and were locally ruled through various Caucasian khanates . However , despite the self-ruling , they all remained subjects and vassals to the Zand king . [ 108 ] The khanates exercised control over their affairs via international trade routes between Central Asia and the West . [ 109 ] Another civil war ensued after the death of Karim Khan in 1779 , out of which Aqa Mohammad Khan emerged , founding the Qajar Dynasty in 1794 . In 1795 , following the disobedience of the Georgian subjects and their alliance with the Russians , the Qajars captured Tblisi by the Battle of Krtsanisi , and drove the Russians out of the entire Caucasus , reestablishing a short-lived Iranian suzerainty over the region . The Russo-Persian wars of 1804 – 1813 and 1826 – 1828 resulted in large irrevocable territorial losses for Iran in the Caucasus , comprising all of Transcaucasia and Dagestan , which made part of the very concept of Iran for centuries , [ 25 ] and thus substantial gains for the neighboring Russian Empire . As a result of the 19th century Russo-Persian wars , the Russians took over the Caucasus , and Iran irrevocably lost control over its integral territories in the region ( comprising modern-day Dagestan , Georgia , Armenia , and Azerbaijan ) , which got confirmed per the treaties of Gulistan and Turkmenchay . [ 26 ] [ 110 ] The area to the north of the river Aras , among which the contemporary Republic of Azerbaijan , eastern Georgia , Dagestan , and Armenia , were Iranian territory until they were occupied by Russia in the course of the 19th century . [ 26 ] [ 111 ] [ 112 ] [ 113 ] [ 114 ] [ 115 ] [ 116 ] As Iran shrank , many Transcaucasian and North Caucasian Muslims moved towards Iran , [ 117 ] [ 118 ] especially until the aftermath result of the Caucasian War , [ 118 ] and the decades afterwards , while Iran's Armenians were encouraged to settle in the newly incorporated Russian territories , [ 119 ] [ 120 ] [ 121 ] causing significant demographic shifts . The struggle related to the constitutional movement continued until 1911 , when Mohammad Ali Shah was defeated and forced to abdicate . On the pretext of restoring order , the Russians occupied Northern Iran in 1911 , and maintained a military presence in the region for years to come . During World War I , the British occupied much of Western Iran , and fully withdrew in 1921 . The Persian Campaign commenced furthermore during World War I in Northwestern Iran after an Ottoman invasion , as part of the Middle Eastern Theatre of World War I. As a result of Ottoman hostilities across the border , a large amount of the Assyrians of Iran were massacred by the Ottoman armies , notably in and around Urmia . [ 124 ] [ 125 ] Apart from the rule of Aqa Mohammad Khan , the Qajar rule is characterized as a century of misrule . [ 96 ] Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and the Imperial Family during the coronation ceremony of the Shah of Iran in 1967 . In 1941 , Reza Shah was forced to abdicate in favor of his son , Mohammad Reza Pahlavi , and established the Persian Corridor , a massive supply route that would last until the end of the ongoing war . The presence of so many foreign troops in the nation also culminated in the Soviet-backed establishment of two puppet regimes in the nation ; the Azerbaijan People's Government , and the Republic of Mahabad . As the Soviet Union refused to relinquish the occupied Iranian territory , the Iran crisis of 1946 was followed , which particularly resulted in the dissolution of both puppet states , and the withdrawal of the Soviets . After the coup , the Shah became increasingly autocratic and sultanistic , and Iran entered a phase of decades long controversial close relations with the United States and some other foreign governments . [ 127 ] While the Shah increasingly modernized Iran and claimed to retain it as a fully secular state , [ 27 ] arbitrary arrests and torture by his secret police , the SAVAK , were used to crush all forms of political opposition . Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini became an active critic of the Shah's White Revolution , and publicly denounced the government . Khomeini was arrested and imprisoned for 18 months . After his release in 1964 , Khomeini publicly criticized the United States government . The Shah sent him into exile . He went first to Turkey , then to Iraq , and finally to France . Due to the 1973 spike in oil prices , the economy of Iran was flooded with foreign currency , which caused inflation . By 1974 , the economy of Iran was experiencing double digit inflation , and despite many large projects to modernize the country , corruption was rampant and caused large amounts of waste . By 1975 and 1976 , an economic recession led to increased unemployment , especially among millions of youth who had migrated to the cities of Iran looking for construction jobs during the boom years of the early 1970s . By the late 1970s , many of these people opposed the Shah's regime and began to organize and join the protests against it . [ 128 ] After the 1979 Revolution The 1979 Revolution , later known as the Islamic Revolution , [ 129 ] [ 130 ] [ 131 ] began in January 1978 with the first major demonstrations against the Shah . [ 132 ] The immediate nationwide uprisings against the new government began by the 1979 Kurdish rebellion with the Khuzestan uprisings , along with the uprisings in Sistan and Baluchestan Province and other areas . Over the next several years , these uprisings were subdued in a violent manner by the new Islamic government . The new government went about purging itself of the non-Islamist political opposition , as well as of those Islamists who were not considered radical enough . Although both nationalists and Marxists had initially joined with Islamists to overthrow the Shah , tens of thousands were executed by the Islamic government afterward . [ 136 ] The Cultural Revolution began in 1980 , with an initial closure of universities for three years , in order to perform an inspection and cleanup in the cultural policy of the education and training system . [ 138 ] On September 22 , 1980 , the Iraqi army invaded the Iranian Khuzestan , and the Iran – Iraq War began . Although the forces of Saddam Hussein made several early advances , by mid 1982 , the Iranian forces successfully managed to drive the Iraqi army back into Iraq . In July 1982 , with Iraq thrown on the defensive , Iran took the decision to invade Iraq and conducted countless offensives in a bid to conquer Iraqi territory and capture cities , such as Basra . The war continued until 1988 , when the Iraqi army defeated the Iranian forces inside Iraq and pushed the remaining Iranian troops back across the border . Subsequently , Khomeini accepted a truce mediated by the UN . The total Iranian casualties in the war were estimated to be 123,220 – 160 , 000 KIA , 60,711 MIA , and 11,000 – 16 , 000 civilians killed . [ 139 ] [ 140 ] Following the Iran – Iraq War , in 1989 , Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and his administration concentrated on a pragmatic pro-business policy of rebuilding and strengthening the economy without making any dramatic break with the ideology of the revolution . In 1997 , Rafsanjani was succeeded by the moderate reformist Mohammad Khatami , whose government attempted , unsuccessfully , to make the country more free and democratic . [ 141 ] Geography Iran has an area of 1,648,195 km 2 ( 636 , 372 sq mi ) . [ 31 ] Iran lies between latitudes 24 ° and 40 ° N , and longitudes 44 ° and 64 ° E. Its borders are with Azerbaijan ( 611 km or 380 mi , with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave , 179 km or 111 mi ) [ 149 ] and Armenia ( 35 km or 22 mi ) to the north-west ; the Caspian Sea to the north ; Turkmenistan ( 992 km or 616 mi ) to the north-east ; Pakistan ( 909 km or 565 mi ) and Afghanistan ( 936 km or 582 mi ) to the east ; Turkey ( 499 km or 310 mi ) and Iraq ( 1 , 458 km or 906 mi ) to the west ; and finally the waters of the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman to the south . Iran consists of the Iranian Plateau with the exception of the coasts of the Caspian Sea and Khuzestan Province . It is one of the world's most mountainous countries , its landscape dominated by rugged mountain ranges that separate various basins or plateaux from one another . The populous western part is the most mountainous , with ranges such as the Caucasus , Zagros and Alborz Mountains ; the last contains Iran's highest point , Mount Damavand at 5,610 m ( 18 , 406 ft ) , which is also the highest mountain on the Eurasian landmass west of the Hindu Kush . [ 150 ] The northern part of Iran is covered by dense rain forests called Shomal or the Jungles of Iran . [ citation needed ] The eastern part consists mostly of desert basins such as the Dasht-e Kavir , Iran's largest desert , in the north-central portion of the country , and the Dasht-e Lut , in the east , as well as some salt lakes . This is because the mountain ranges are too high for rain clouds to reach these regions . The only large plains are found along the coast of the Caspian Sea and at the northern end of the Persian Gulf , where Iran borders the mouth of the Arvand river . Smaller , discontinuous plains are found along the remaining coast of the Persian Gulf , the Strait of Hormuz and the Gulf of Oman . Iran's climate ranges from arid or semiarid , to subtropical along the Caspian coast and the northern forests . [ 151 ] On the northern edge of the country ( the Caspian coastal plain ) temperatures rarely fall below freezing and the area remains humid for the rest of the year . Summer temperatures rarely exceed 29 ° C ( 84 . 2 ° F ) . [ 152 ] [ 153 ] Annual precipitation is 680 mm ( 26 . 8 in ) in the eastern part of the plain and more than 1,700 mm ( 66 . 9 in ) in the western part . United Nations Resident Coordinator for Iran Gary Lewis has said that "" Water scarcity poses the most severe human security challenge in Iran today "" . [ 154 ] To the west , settlements in the Zagros basin experience lower temperatures , severe winters with below zero average daily temperatures and heavy snowfall . The eastern and central basins are arid , with less than 200 mm ( 7 . 9 in ) of rain , and have occasional deserts . [ 155 ] Average summer temperatures rarely exceed 38 ° C ( 100 . 4 ° F ) . [ 152 ] The coastal plains of the Persian Gulf and Gulf of Oman in southern Iran have mild winters , and very humid and hot summers . The annual precipitation ranges from 135 to 355 mm ( 5 . 3 to 14.0 in ) . [ 152 ] One of the most famous members of the Iranian wildlife is the critically endangered Asiatic cheetah , also known as the Iranian cheetah , whose numbers were greatly reduced after the 1979 Revolution . [ 158 ] The Persian leopard , which is the world's largest leopard subspecies living primarily in northern Iran , is also listed as an endangered species . [ 159 ] Iran lost all its Asiatic lions and the now extinct Caspian tigers by the earlier part of the 20th century . [ 160 ] At least 74 species of Iranian wildlife are on the red list of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature , a sign of serious threats against the country's biodiversity . The Iranian Parliament has been showing disregard for wildlife by passing laws and regulations such as the act that lets the Ministry of Industries and Mines exploit mines without the involvement of the Department of Environment , and by approving large national development projects without demanding comprehensive study of their impact on wildlife habitats . [ 161 ] Iran is divided into five regions with thirty one provinces ( ostān ) , [ 162 ] each governed by an appointed governor ( ostāndār ) . The provinces are divided into counties ( shahrestān ) , and subdivided into districts ( bakhsh ) and sub-districts ( dehestān ) . Iran has one of the highest urban growth rates in the world . From 1950 to 2002 , the urban proportion of the population increased from 27 % to 60 % . [ 163 ] The United Nations predicts that by 2030 , 80 % of the population will be urban . [ 164 ] [ not in citation given ] Most internal migrants have settled near the cities of Tehran , Isfahan , Ahvaz , and Qom . The listed populations are from the 2006 / 07 ( 1385 AP ) census . [ 165 ] [ not in citation given ] Tehran , with a population of around 8.1 million ( 2011 census ) , is the capital and largest city in Iran . It is an economical and cultural center in Iran , and is the hub of the country's communication and transport network . The country's second largest city , Mashhad , has a population of around 2.7 million ( 2011 census ) . It is the capital of Razavi Khorasan Province , and is a holy city in Shia Islam , as it is the site of the Imam Reza Shrine . About 15 to 20 million pilgrims visit the Shrine of Imam Reza every year . [ 166 ] [ 167 ] The fourth major city of Iran , Karaj , has a population of around 1.6 million ( 2011 census ) . It is the capital of Alborz Province , and is situated 20 km west of Tehran , at the foot of the Alborz mountains . It is a major industrial city in Iran , with large factories producing sugar , textiles , wire , and alcohol . Tabriz , the capital of East Azerbaijan Province , is considered the second industrial city of Iran ( after Tehran ) . With a population of around 1.4 million ( 2011 census ) , it is the fifth major city of Iran , which had been the second-largest until the late 1960s . It is one of the former capitals of Iran , the first capital of the Safavid Empire , and has also been proven extremely influential in the country's recent history . Shiraz , with a population of around 1.4 million ( 2011 census ) , is the sixth major city of Iran . It is the capital of Fars Province , and was also a former capital of Iran . The area was greatly influenced by the Babylonian civilization , and after the emergence of the ancient Persians , soon came to be known as Persis . Persians were present in the region since the 9th century BC , and became rulers of a large empire under the reign of the Achaemenid Dynasty in the 6th century BC . The ruins of Persepolis and Pasargadae , two of the four capitals of the Achaemenid Empire , are located around the modern-day city of Shiraz . Government and politics Ali Khamenei , the Supreme Leader of Iran , meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping on January 23 , 2016 . – Iran and China are strategic allies . [ 171 ] [ 172 ] Iran's syncretic political system combines elements of a modern Islamic theocracy with democracy . The political system of the Islamic Republic is based on the 1979 Constitution , and comprises several intricately connected governing bodies . The Leader of the Revolution ( "" Supreme Leader "" ) is responsible for delineation and supervision of the general policies of the Islamic Republic of Iran . [ 173 ] The Supreme Leader is Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces , controls the military intelligence and security operations , and has sole power to declare war or peace . [ 173 ] The heads of the judiciary , state radio and television networks , the commanders of the police and military forces and six of the twelve members of the Guardian Council are appointed by the Supreme Leader . [ 173 ] The Assembly of Experts elects and dismisses the Supreme Leader on the basis of qualifications and popular esteem . [ 174 ] After the Supreme Leader , the Constitution defines the President of Iran as the highest state authority . [ 173 ] [ 176 ] The President is elected by universal suffrage for a term of four years and can only be re-elected for one term . [ 176 ] [ dubious – discuss ] Presidential candidates must be approved by the Guardian Council before running , in order to ensure their allegiance to the ideals of the Islamic Revolution . [ 177 ] The President is responsible for the implementation of the Constitution and for the exercise of executive powers , except for matters directly related to the Supreme Leader , who has the final say in all matters . [ 173 ] The President appoints and supervises the Council of Ministers , coordinates government decisions , and selects government policies to be placed before the legislature . [ 178 ] The current Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei has fired as well as reinstated Council of Ministers members . [ 179 ] [ 180 ] Eight Vice-Presidents serve under the President , as well as a cabinet of twenty-two ministers , who must all be approved by the legislature . [ 181 ] The legislature of Iran ( known as the Islamic Consultative Assembly ) is a unicameral body comprising 290 members elected for four-year terms . [ 182 ] It drafts legislation , ratifies international treaties , and approves the national budget . All parliamentary candidates and all legislation from the assembly must be approved by the Guardian Council . [ 183 ] The Guardian Council comprises twelve jurists including six appointed by the Supreme Leader . The others are elected by the Iranian Parliament from among the jurists nominated by the Head of the Judiciary . [ 184 ] [ 185 ] The Council interprets the constitution and may veto Parliament . If a law is deemed incompatible with the constitution or Sharia ( Islamic law ) , it is referred back to Parliament for revision . [ 176 ] The Expediency Council has the authority to mediate disputes between Parliament and the Guardian Council , and serves as an advisory body to the Supreme Leader , making it one of the most powerful governing bodies in the country . [ 186 ] Local city councils are elected by public vote to four-year terms in all cities and villages of Iran . Law The Supreme Leader appoints the head of Iran's judiciary , who in turn appoints the head of the Supreme Court and the chief public prosecutor . [ 187 ] There are several types of courts including public courts that deal with civil and criminal cases , and revolutionary courts which deal with certain categories of offenses , including crimes against national security . The decisions of the revolutionary courts are final and can not be appealed . [ 187 ] The Special Clerical Court handles crimes allegedly committed by clerics , although it has also taken on cases involving lay people . The Special Clerical Court functions independently of the regular judicial framework and is accountable only to the Supreme Leader . The Court's rulings are final and can not be appealed . [ 187 ] The Assembly of Experts , which meets for one week annually , comprises 86 "" virtuous and learned "" clerics elected by adult suffrage for eight-year terms . As with the presidential and parliamentary elections , the Guardian Council determines candidates' eligibility . [ 187 ] The Assembly elects the Supreme Leader and has the constitutional authority to remove the Supreme Leader from power at any time . [ 187 ] It has not challenged any of the Supreme Leader's decisions . [ 187 ] The current head of the judicial system Sadeq Larijani , appointed by long-time Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei , said that it is illegal for the Assembly of Experts to supervise Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei . [ 188 ] Often , Iran's foreign relations since the time of the revolution have been portrayed as being based on two strategic principles : eliminating outside influences in the region and pursuing extensive diplomatic contacts with developing and non-aligned countries . [ 194 ] Since 2005 , Iran's nuclear program has become the subject of contention with the international community following earlier quotes of Iranian leadership favoring the use of an atomic bomb against Iran's enemies and in particular Israel . [ 195 ] Many countries have expressed concern that Iran's nuclear program could divert civilian nuclear technology into a weapons program . This has led the UN Security Council to impose sanctions against Iran which had further isolated Iran politically and economically from the rest of the global community . In 2009 , the US Director of National Intelligence said that Iran , if choosing to , would not be able to develop a nuclear weapon until 2013 . [ 196 ] As of 2009 [ update ] , Iran maintains diplomatic relations with 99 members of the United Nations , [ 197 ] but not with the United States or Israel , a state which Iran has not recognized since the 1979 Revolution . [ 198 ] Military Fotros ( UCAV ) is considered the largest in Iran's arsenal of unmanned aerial vehicles . Iran has made several indigenous UAVs . Iran has a paramilitary , volunteer militia force within the IRGC , called the Basij , which includes about 90,000 full-time , active-duty uniformed members . Up to 11 million men and women are members of the Basij who could potentially be called up for service ; GlobalSecurity.org estimates Iran could mobilize "" up to one million men "" . This would be among the largest troop mobilizations in the world . [ 202 ] In 2007 , Iran's military spending represented 2.6 % of the GDP or $ 102 per capita , the lowest figure of the Persian Gulf nations . [ 203 ] Iran's military doctrine is based on deterrence . [ 204 ] In 2014 arms spending the country spent $ 15 billion and was outspent by the states of the Gulf Cooperation Council by a factor of 13 . [ 205 ] Iran supports the military activities of its allies in Syria , Iraq , and Lebanon ( Hezbollah ) with thousands of rockets and missiles . [ 206 ] Economy Iran's economy is a mixture of central planning , state ownership of oil and other large enterprises , village agriculture , and small-scale private trading and service ventures . [ 210 ] In 2014 , GDP was $ 404 . 1 billion ( $ 1 . 334 trillion at PPP ) , or $ 17 , 100 at PPP per capita . [ 31 ] Iran is ranked as an upper-middle income economy by the World Bank . [ 211 ] In the early 21st century the service sector contributed the largest percentage of the GDP , followed by industry ( mining and manufacturing ) and agriculture . [ 212 ] The Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran is responsible for developing and maintaining the Iranian rial , which serves as the country's currency . The government does n't recognize trade unions other than the Islamic Labour Councils , which are subject to the approval of employers and the security services . [ 213 ] The minimum wage in June 2013 was 487 million rials a month ( $ 134 ) . [ 214 ] Unemployment has remained above 10 % since 1997 , and the unemployment rate for women is almost double that of the men . [ 214 ] In 2006 , about 45 % of the government's budget came from oil and natural gas revenues , and 31 % came from taxes and fees . [ 215 ] As of 2007 [ update ] , Iran had earned $ 70 billion in foreign exchange reserves mostly ( 80 % ) from crude oil exports . [ 216 ] Iranian budget deficits have been a chronic problem , mostly due to large-scale state subsidies , that include foodstuffs and especially gasoline , totaling more than $ 84 billion in 2008 for the energy sector alone . [ 217 ] [ 218 ] In 2010 , the economic reform plan was approved by parliament to cut subsidies gradually and replace them with targeted social assistance . The objective is to move towards free market prices in a 5-year period and increase productivity and social justice . [ 219 ] The administration continues to follow the market reform plans of the previous one and indicated that it will diversify Iran's oil-reliant economy . Iran has also developed a biotechnology , nanotechnology , and pharmaceuticals industry . [ 221 ] However , nationalized industries such as the bonyads have often been managed badly , making them ineffective and uncompetitive with years . Currently , the government is trying to privatize these industries , and , despite successes , there are still several problems to be overcome , such as the lagging corruption in the public sector and lack of competitiveness . In 2010 , Iran was ranked 69 , out of 139 nations , in the Global Competitiveness Report . [ 222 ] Iran has leading manufacturing industries in the fields of car-manufacture and transportation , construction materials , home appliances , food and agricultural goods , armaments , pharmaceuticals , information technology , power and petrochemicals in the Middle East . [ 223 ] According to FAO , Iran has been a top five producer of the following agricultural products in the world in 2012 : apricots , cherries , sour cherries , cucumbers and gherkins , dates , eggplants , figs , pistachios , quinces , walnuts , and watermelons . [ 224 ] Economic sanctions against Iran , such as the embargo against Iranian crude oil , have affected the economy . [ 225 ] Sanctions have led to a steep fall in the value of the rial , and as of April 2013 one US dollar is worth 36,000 rial , compared with 16,000 in early 2012 . [ 226 ] In 2015 , Iran and the P5 + 1 reached a deal on the nuclear program that removed the main sanctions pertaining to Iran's nuclear program by 2016 . [ 227 ] Tourism Although tourism declined significantly during the war with Iraq , it has been subsequently recovered . About 1,659,000 foreign tourists visited Iran in 2004 , and 2.3 million in 2009 , mostly from Asian countries , including the republics of Central Asia , while about 10 % came from the European Union and North America . [ 229 ] [ 230 ] [ 231 ] Over five million tourists visited Iran in the fiscal year of 2014 – 2015 , ending March 21 , four percent more year-on-year . [ 232 ] Alongside the capital , the most popular tourist destinations are Isfahan , Mashhad and Shiraz . [ 233 ] In the early 2000s , the industry faced serious limitations in infrastructure , communications , industry standards and personnel training . [ 234 ] The majority of the 300,000 tourist visas granted in 2003 were obtained by Asian Muslims , who presumably intended to visit important pilgrimage sites in Mashhad and Qom . [ 231 ] Several organized tours from Germany , France and other European countries come to Iran annually to visit archaeological sites and monuments . In 2003 , Iran ranked 68th in tourism revenues worldwide . [ 235 ] According to UNESCO and the deputy head of research for Iran Travel and Tourism Organization ( ITTO ) , Iran is rated 4th among the top 10 destinations in the Middle East . [ 235 ] Domestic tourism in Iran is one of the largest in the world . [ 236 ] [ 237 ] [ 238 ] Weak advertising , unstable regional conditions , a poor public image in some parts of the world , and absence of efficient planning schemes in the tourism sector have all hindered the growth of tourism . Energy Iran holds 10 % of the world's proven oil reserves and 15 % of its gas . It is OPEC ' s second largest exporter and the world's fourth oil producer . Iran has the second largest proved gas reserves in the world after Russia , with 33.6 trillion cubic metres , [ 239 ] and third largest natural gas production in the world after Indonesia , and Russia . It also ranks fourth in oil reserves with an estimated 153,600,000,000 barrels . [ 240 ] [ 241 ] It is OPEC ' s 2nd largest oil exporter and is an energy superpower . [ 242 ] [ 243 ] In 2005 , Iran spent US $ 4 billion on fuel imports , because of contraband and inefficient domestic use . [ 244 ] Oil industry output averaged 4 million barrels per day ( 640 , 000 m 3 / d ) in 2005 , compared with the peak of six million barrels per day reached in 1974 . In the early years of the 2000s ( decade ) , industry infrastructure was increasingly inefficient because of technological lags . Few exploratory wells were drilled in 2005 . In 2004 , a large share of natural gas reserves in Iran were untapped . The addition of new hydroelectric stations and the streamlining of conventional coal and oil-fired stations increased installed capacity to 33,000 megawatts . Of that amount , about 75 % was based on natural gas , 18 % on oil , and 7 % on hydroelectric power . In 2004 , Iran opened its first wind-powered and geothermal plants , and the first solar thermal plant is to come online in 2009 . Iran is the third country in the world to have developed GTL technology . [ 245 ] The requirement to enter into higher education is to have a high school diploma and pass the national university entrance examination , Iranian University Entrance Exam ( known as concour ) , which is the equivalent of the US SAT exams . Many students do a 1 – 2 year course of pre-university ( piš-dānešgāh ) , which is the equivalent of GCE A-levels and International Baccalaureate . The completion of the pre-university course earns students the Pre-University Certificate . [ 250 ] Higher education is sanctioned by different levels of diplomas . Kārdāni ( associate degree ; also known as fowq e diplom ) is delivered after 2 years of higher education ; kāršenāsi ( bachelor's degree ; also known as licāns ) is delivered after 4 years of higher education ; and kāršenāsi e aršad ( master's degree ) is delivered after 2 more years of study , after which another exam allows the candidate to pursue a doctoral program ( PhD ; known as doctorā ) . [ 251 ] Iran has increased its publication output nearly tenfold from 1996 through 2004 , and has been ranked first in terms of output growth rate , followed by China . [ 253 ] According to SCImago , Iran could rank fourth in the world in terms of research output by 2018 , if the current trend persists . [ 254 ] In 2009 , a SUSE Linux-based HPC system made by the Aerospace Research Institute of Iran ( ARI ) was launched with 32 cores , and now runs 96 cores . Its performance was pegged at 192 GFLOPS . [ 255 ] Sorena 2 Robot , which was designed by engineers at the University of Tehran , was unveiled in 2010 . The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ) has placed the name of Surena among the five prominent robots of the world after analyzing its performance . [ 256 ] Production line for AryoSeven , inside the biopharmaceutical company of AryoGen . According to a study by David Morrison and Ali Khadem Hosseini ( Harvard-MIT and Cambridge ) , stem cell research in Iran is amongst the top 10 in the world . [ 259 ] Iran ranks 15th in the world in nanotechnologies . [ 260 ] [ 261 ] [ 262 ] Iran placed its domestically built satellite , Omid into orbit on the 30th anniversary of the 1979 Revolution , on 2 February 2009 , [ 263 ] through Safir rocket , becoming the ninth country in the world capable of both producing a satellite and sending it into space from a domestically made launcher . [ 264 ] Iran is a diverse country , consisting of many religious and ethnic groups that are unified through a shared Iranian language and culture . [ 271 ] Iran's population grew rapidly during the latter half of the 20th century , increasing from about 19 million in 1956 to around 75 million by 2009 . [ 272 ] [ 273 ] However , Iran's birth rate has dropped significantly in recent years , leading to a population growth rate – recorded from July 2012 – of about 1.29 % . [ 274 ] Studies project that the growth will continue to slow until it stabilizes above 105 million by 2050 . [ 275 ] [ 276 ] Iran hosts one of the largest refugee populations in the world , with more than one million refugees , mostly from Afghanistan and Iraq . [ 277 ] Since 2006 , Iranian officials have been working with the UNHCR and Afghan officials for their repatriation . [ 278 ] According to estimates , about five million Iranian citizens have emigrated to other countries , mostly since the 1979 Revolution . [ 279 ] [ 280 ] According to the Iranian Constitution , the government is required to provide every citizen of the country with access to social security that covers retirement , unemployment , old age , disability , accidents , calamities , health and medical treatment and care services . [ 281 ] This is covered by tax revenues and income derived from public contributions . [ 282 ] Languages The majority of the population speak Persian , which is also the official language of the country . Others include speakers of the rest of the Iranian languages within the greater Indo-European languages , and the languages of the other ethnicities in Iran . The Turkic languages and dialects , most importantly Azerbaijani Turkish which is by far the most spoken language in the country after Persian , [ 283 ] are spoken in different areas in Iran , but are especially widely and dominantly spoken in the provinces of Azerbaijan . The Library of Congress issued slightly different estimates : Persians 65 % ( incl. Mazenderanis , Gilaks and Talysh people ) , Azerbaijanis 16 % , Kurds 7 % , Lurs 6 % , Baluchi 2 % ; Turkic tribal groups such as Qashqai 1 % , and Turkmens 1 % ; and non-Iranian , non-Turkic groups such as Armenians , Georgians , Assyrians , Circassians , and Arabs less than 3 % . It determined that Persian is the first language of at least 65 % of the country's population , and is the second language for most of the remaining 35 % . [ 290 ] Ethnicities and religions in Iran . Other non-governmental estimations regarding the groups other than the Persians and Azerbaijanis roughly congruate with the World Factbook and the Library of Congress . However , many scholarly and organisational estimations regarding the number of these two groups differ significantly from the mentioned census . According to many of them , the number of ethnic Azerbaijanis in Iran comprises between 21.6 – 30 % of the total population , with the majority holding it on 25 % . c [ 291 ] d [ 292 ] [ 293 ] [ 294 ] [ 295 ] [ 296 ] In any case , the largest population of Azerbaijanis in the world live in Iran . Religion Historically , Proto-Iranian religion and the subsequent Zoroastrianism and Manichaeism were the dominant religions in Iran , particularly during the Median , Achaemenid , Parthian and Sassanid empires . This changed after the fall of the Sassanid Empire by the Muslim Conquest of Iran . Iran was predominantly Sunni until the conversion of the country ( as well as the people of what is today the neighboring Republic of Azerbaijan ) to Shia Islam by the order of the Safavid dynasty in the 16th century . [ 103 ] Judaism has a long history in Iran , dating back to the Achaemenid Conquest of Babylonia . Although many left in the wake of the establishment of the State of Israel and the 1979 Revolution , around 8,756 Jews remain in Iran , according to the latest census . [ 300 ] Iran has the largest Jewish population in the Middle East outside of Israel . [ 301 ] Around 250,000 – 370 , 000 Christians reside in Iran , [ 302 ] [ 303 ] and it is the largest recognized minority religion in the nation . Most are of Armenian background with a sizable minority of Assyrians as well . [ 304 ] Christianity , Judaism , Zoroastrianism , and the Sunni branch of Islam are officially recognized by the government , and have reserved seats in the Iranian Parliament . [ 123 ] But the Bahá ' í Faith , which is said to be the largest non-Muslim religious minority in Iran , [ 305 ] is not officially recognized , and has been persecuted during its existence in Iran since the 19th century . Since the 1979 Revolution , the persecution of Bahais has increased with executions , the denial of civil rights and liberties , and the denial of access to higher education and employment . [ 306 ] [ 307 ] [ 308 ] The government has not released statistics regarding irreligiosity . However , the irreligious figures are growing and are higher in the diaspora , notably among Iranian Americans . [ 309 ] [ 310 ] Culture The earliest recorded cultures within the region of Iran date back to the Lower Paleolithic era . Owing to its dominant geopolitical position and culture in the world , Iran has directly influenced cultures as far away as Greece , Macedonia , and Italy to the West , Russia to the North , the Arabian Peninsula to the South , and indirectly South and East Asia to the East . Art Iranian works of art show a great variety in style , in different regions and periods . [ 311 ] Iranian art encompasses many disciplines , including architecture , painting , weaving , pottery , calligraphy , metalworking , and stonemasonry . The Median and Achaemenid empires left a significant classical art scene which remained as basic influences for the art of the later eras . The art of the Parthians was a mixture of Iranian and Hellenistic artworks , with their main motifs being scenes of royal hunting expeditions and investitures . [ 312 ] [ 313 ] The Sassanid art played a prominent role in the formation of both European and Asian medieval art , [ 78 ] which carried forward to the Islamic world , and much of what later became known as Islamic learning , such as philology , literature , jurisprudence , philosophy , medicine , architecture , and science , were of Sassanid basis . [ 314 ] [ 315 ] [ 316 ] There is also a vibrant Iranian modern and contemporary art scene , with its genesis in the late 1940s . The 1949 Apadana Gallery of Tehran , which was operated by Mahmoud Javadi Pour and other colleagues , and the emergence of artists such as Marcos Grigorian in the 1950s , signaled a commitment to the creation of a form of modern art grounded in Iran . [ 317 ] Iranian carpet-weaving dates back to the Bronze Age , and is one of the most distinguished manifestations of the art of Iran . Iran is the world's largest producer and exporter of handmade carpets , producing three quarters of the world's total output and having a share of 30 % of world's export markets . [ 318 ] [ 319 ] Architecture The history of Iranian architecture goes back to the 7th millennium BC . [ 320 ] Iranians were among the first to use mathematics , geometry and astronomy in architecture . Iranian architecture displays great variety , both structural and aesthetic , developing gradually and coherently out of earlier traditions and experience . [ 321 ] The guiding motifs of Iranian architecture are unity , continuity and cosmic symbolism . [ 322 ] Iran ranks seventh among countries with the most archaeological architectural ruins and attractions from antiquity , as recognized by UNESCO . [ 323 ] Literature Iranian literature is one of the world's oldest literatures , dating back to the poetry of Avesta and Zoroastrian literature . Poetry is used in many Iranian classical works , whether in literature , science , or metaphysics . The Persian language has been dubbed as a worthy language to serve as a conduit for poetry , and is considered as one of the four main bodies of world literature . [ 324 ] Dialects of Persian are sporadically spoken throughout regions from China to Syria and Russia , though mainly in the Iranian Plateau . [ 325 ] [ 326 ] Philosophy Iranian philosophy originates to Indo-Iranian roots , with Zarathustra ' s teachings having major influences . According to the Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy , the chronology of the subject and science of philosophy starts with the Indo-Iranians , dating this event to 1500 BC . The Oxford dictionary also states , "" Zarathushtra's philosophy entered to influence Western tradition through Judaism , and therefore on Middle Platonism . "" While there are ancient relations between the Indian Vedas and the Iranian Avesta , the two main families of the Indo-Iranian philosophical traditions were characterized by fundamental differences , especially in their implications for the human being's position in society and their view of man's role in the universe . The Cyrus cylinder , which is known as "" the first charter of human rights "" , is often seen as a reflection of the questions and thoughts expressed by Zarathustra , and developed in Zoroastrian schools of the Achaemenid Era . [ 328 ] [ 329 ] The earliest tenets of Zoroastrian schools are part of the extant scriptures of the Zoroastrian religion in the Avestan language . Among them are treatises such as the Shikand-gumanic Vichar , Denkard , Zātspram , as well as older passages of Avesta , and the Gathas . [ 330 ] Mythology Iranian mythology consists of ancient Iranian folklore and stories , all involving extraordinary beings . They reflect attitudes towards the confrontation of good and evil , actions of the gods , and the exploits of heroes and fabulous creatures . Myths play a crucial part in the culture of Iran , and understanding of them is increased when they are considered within the context of actual events in the history of Iran . The geography of Greater Iran , a vast area covering the present-day Iran , the Caucasus , Anatolia , Mesopotamia and Central Asia , with its high mountain ranges , plays the main role in much of the Iranian mythology . Shahnameh of Ferdowsi is the main collection of the mythology of Iran , which draws heavily on the stories and characters of Zoroastrianism , from the texts of Avesta , Denkard and Bundahishn . Observances Iran has three official calendar systems , including the Solar calendar as the main , the Gregorian calendar for international and Christian events , and the Lunar calendar for Islamic events . The main national annual of Iran is Nowruz , an ancient tradition celebrated on 21 March to mark the beginning of spring and the New Year of Iran . It is enjoyed by people with different religions , but is a holiday for Zoroastrians . It was registered on the list of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity , [ 331 ] and was described as the Persian New Year [ 332 ] [ 333 ] [ 334 ] [ 335 ] by UNESCO in 2009 . Other remained national annuals of Iran include : Čā ' r Šanbe Suri : A prelude to Nowruz , in honor of Ātar ( the Holy Fire ) , celebrated by fireworks and fire-jumping , on the last Wednesday eve of the year . Sizde be Dar : Leaving the house to join the nature , on the thirteenth day of the New Year ( April 2 ) . Čelle ye Zemestān : Also known as Yaldā ; the longest night of the year , celebrated on the eve of Winter Solstice , by reciting poetry and having the customary fruits which include watermelon , pomegranate and mixed nuts . Tirgān : A mid summer festival , in honor of Tishtrya , celebrated on Tir 13 ( July 4 ) , by splashing water , reciting poetry and having traditional dishes such as šole-zard and spinach soup . Mehrgān : An autumn festival , in honor of Mithra , celebrated on Mehr 16 ( October 8 ) , by family gathering and setting a table of sweets , flowers and a mirror . Sepand Ārmazgān : Dedicated to Ameša Spenta ( the Holy Devotion ) ; celebrated by giving presents to partners , on Esfand 15 ( February 24 ) . Music Karna , an ancient Iranian musical instrument from the 6th century BC . Iran is the apparent birthplace of the earliest complex instruments , as evidenced by the archaeological records found in Western Iran , dating back to the 3rd millennium BC . [ 336 ] The Iranian use of both vertical and horizontal angular harps have been documented at the sites Madaktu and Kul-e Farah , with the largest collection of Elamite instruments documented at Kul-e Farah . Multiple depictions of horizontal harps were also sculpted in Assyrian palaces , dating back between 865 and 650 BC . Xenophon ' s Cyropaedia refers to a great number of singing women at the court of the Achaemenid Iran . Athenaeus of Naucratis states that , by the time of the last Achaemenid king , Artashata ( 336 – 330 BC ) , Achaemenid singing girls were captured by the Macedonian general , Parmenion . [ 337 ] Under the Parthian Empire , a type of epic music was taught to youth , depicting the national epics and myths which were later represented in the Shahnameh of Ferdowsi . [ 338 ] History of the Sassanid music is better documented than the earlier periods , and is specially more evident in the Zoroastrian contexts . [ 339 ] By the time of Khosrow II , the Sassanid royal court was the host of prominent musicians , namely Ramtin , Bamshad , Nakisa , Azad , Sarkash , and Barbad . The first national music society of the modern-day Iran was founded by Rouhollah Khaleghi in the 1940s , with the School of National Music established in 1949 . [ 340 ] Today , the main orchestra of Iran include the National Orchestra , the Nations Orchestra , and the Symphony Orchestra of Tehran . Iranian pop music emerged by the Qajar Era . [ 341 ] It was led to major developments in the 1950s , by the emergence of stars such as Viguen , who was referred to as the king of Persian pop and jazz . [ 342 ] The 1970s is known as a "" Golden Age "" for Iranian pop music , where a revolution was formed in the music industry of Iran , using indigenous instruments and forms and adding electric guitar . Hayedeh , Faramarz Aslani , Farhad Mehrad , Googoosh , and Ebi are among the leading artists of this period . The emergence of genres such as modern rock in the 1970s and hip hop in the 1980s , which replaced the outdated musical styles among the youth , followed major movements and influences in the music of Iran . [ 343 ] [ 344 ] [ 345 ] [ 346 ] Theater Theater background of Iran dates back to antiquity . The earliest recorded representations of dancing figures within Iran were found in prehistoric sites such as Tepe Sialk and Tepe Mūsīān . [ 347 ] The oldest initiation of theater and phenomena of acting among the people of Iran can be traced in the epic ceremonial theaters , such as Soug e Sivash and Mogh Koshi ( Megakhouni ) , and also dances and theater narrations of Iranian mythological tales reported by Herodotos and Xenophon . There are several theatrical genres which emerged before the advent of cinema in Iran , including Xeyme Shab Bazi ( Puppetry ) , Saye Bazi ( Shadow play ) , Ru-howzi ( Comical plays ) , and Tazieh ( Sorrow plays ) . Before the 1979 Revolution , the Iranian national stage had become a famous performing scene for known international artists and troupes , [ 348 ] with the Roudaki Hall of Tehran constructed to function as the national stage for opera and ballet . Opened on October 26 , 1967 , the hall is home to the Symphony Orchestra of Tehran , the Opera Orchestra of Tehran , and the Iranian National Ballet Company , and continues now with Vahdat Hall as its official name . The opera Rostam o Sohrab , based on the epic of Rostam and Sohrab from Shahnameh , is an example of opera performances in the modern-day Iran . Cinema and animation The earliest examples of visual representations in Iranian history are traced back to the bas-reliefs of Persepolis , c . 500 BC . Persepolis was the ritual center of the ancient kingdom of Achaemenids , and the figures at Persepolis remain bound by the rules of grammar and syntax of visual language . [ 349 ] The Iranian visual arts reached a pinnacle by the Sassanid Era . A bas-relief from this period in Taq Bostan depicts a complex hunting scene . Similar works from the period have been found to articulate movements and actions in a highly sophisticated manner . It is even possible to see a progenitor of the cinema close-up in one of these works of art , which shows a wounded wild pig escaping from the hunting ground . [ 350 ] By the early 20th century , the five-year-old modern industry of cinema came to Iran . The first Iranian filmmaker was Mirza Ebrahim Khan ( Akkas Bashi ) , the official photographer of Mozaffar od Din Shah of Qajar . He obtained a camera and filmed the Shah's visit to Europe . In 1904 , Mirza Ebrahim Khan ( Sahhaf Bashi ) opened the first movie theater in Tehran . [ 351 ] After him , several others like Russi Khan , Ardeshir Khan , and Ali Vakili tried to establish new movie theaters in Tehran . Until the early 1930s , there were around 15 cinema theaters in Tehran and 11 in other provinces . [ 350 ] Behrouz Vossoughi , a well-known Iranian actor who has appeared in over 90 films . The 1960s was a significant decade for Iranian cinema , with 25 commercial films produced annually on average throughout the early 60s , increasing to 65 by the end of the decade . The majority of production focused on melodrama and thrillers . With the screening of the films Kaiser and The Cow , directed by Masoud Kimiai and Dariush Mehrjui respectively in 1969 , alternative films set out to establish their status in the film industry and Bahram Beyzai ' s Downpour and Nasser Taghvai ' s Tranquility in the Presence of Others followed soon . Attempts to organize a film festival that had begun in 1954 within the framework of the Golrizan Festival , bore fruits in the form of the Sepas Festival in 1969 . The endeavors also resulted in the formation of the Tehran World Festival in 1973 . [ 352 ] After the Revolution of 1979 , as the new government imposed new laws and standards , a new age in Iranian cinema emerged , starting with Viva ... by Khosrow Sinai and followed by many other directors , such as Abbas Kiarostami and Jafar Panahi . Kiarostami , an admired Iranian director , planted Iran firmly on the map of world cinema when he won the Palme d ' Or for Taste of Cherry in 1997 . [ 353 ] The continuous presence of Iranian films in prestigious international festivals , such as the Cannes Film Festival , the Venice Film Festival , and the Berlin International Film Festival , attracted world attention to Iranian masterpieces . [ 354 ] In 2006 , six Iranian films , of six different styles , represented Iranian cinema at the Berlin International Film Festival . Critics considered this a remarkable event in the history of Iranian cinema . [ 355 ] [ 356 ] Reproduction of the world's oldest example of animation , dating back to the late half of the 3rd millennium BC , found in Burnt City , Iran The oldest records of animation in Iran date back to the late 3rd millennium BC . An earthen goblet discovered at the site of the 5 , 200-year-old Burnt City in southeastern Iran , depicts what could possibly be the world's oldest example of animation . The artifact bears five sequential images depicting a Persian ibex jumping up to eat the leaves of a tree . [ 357 ] [ 358 ] The art of animation , as practiced in modern Iran , started in the 1950s . After four decades of Iranian animation production and three-decade experience of Kanoon Institute , the Tehran International Animation Festival ( TIAF ) was established in February 1999 . Every two years , participants from more than 70 countries attend this event in Tehran , which holds Iran's biggest national animation market . [ 359 ] [ 360 ] Media Iran's telecommunications are handled by the state-owned Telecommunication Company of Iran . Almost all of the media outlets in Iran are state-owned or subject to authority monitoring . Outlets such as books , movies and music albums must be approved by the Ministry of Ershad before being released to the public . Television was introduced to Iran in 1958 . [ 361 ] Although the 1974 Asian Games was broadcast in color , full color programming began in 1978 . [ 361 ] Since the 1979 Revolution , Iran's largest media corporation is the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting ( IRIB ) . [ 237 ] Over 30 percent of Iranians watch satellite channels , but observers state that the figures are likely to be higher . [ 362 ] Iran received access to the Internet in 1993 . According to 2014 census , around 40 % of the population of Iran are Internet users . [ 363 ] Iran ranks 24th among countries by number of Internet users . According to the statistics provided by the web information company of Alexa , Google Search and Yahoo ! are the most used search engines in Iran . [ 364 ] Over 80 % of the users of Telegram , a cloud - based instant messaging service , are from Iran . [ 365 ] Instagram is the most popular online social networking service in Iran . [ 364 ] Direct access to Facebook has been blocked in Iran since the 2009 Iranian presidential election protests , due to organization of the opposition movements on the website ; [ 366 ] but however , Facebook has around 12 to 17 million users in Iran who are using virtual private networks and proxy servers to access the website . [ 367 ] Around 90 % of Iran's e-commerce takes place on the Iranian online store of Digikala , which has around 750,000 visitors per day and more than 2.3 million subscribers . [ 368 ] Digikala is the most visited online store in the Middle East , and ranks 4th among the most visited websites in Iran . [ 364 ] Sports With two thirds of the population under the age of 25 , many sports are played in Iran , both traditional and modern . Iran is most likely the birthplace of polo , [ 369 ] [ 370 ] which is locally known as čowgān , with its earliest records attributed to the ancient Medes . [ 371 ] Soccer has been regarded as the most popular sport in Iran , with the men's national team having won the Asian Cup on three occasions . The national team has maintained its position as the best Asian squad , as it ranks 1st in Asia and 39th in the world according to the FIFA World Rankings ( as of August 2016 [ update ] ) . [ 372 ] Iran is home to several ski resorts , the most famous being Tochal , Dizin and Shemshak which are all within one to three hours traveling from the capital city Tehran . [ 379 ] The resort of Tochal , located in the Alborz mountain rage , is the world's fifth-highest ski resort ( 3 , 730 m or 12,238 ft at its highest station ) . Potentially suitable terrain can also be found in Lorestan , Mazenderan and other provinces . In September 1974 , Iran became the first country in West Asia to host the Asian Games . The Azadi Sport Complex , which is the largest sport complex in Iran , was originally built for this occasion . In 2016 , Iran made global headlines for international female champions boycotting tournaments in Iran in chess ( U.S. Woman Grandmaster Nazi Paikidze ) [ 380 ] [ 381 ] and in shooting ( Indian world champion Heena Sidhu ) [ 382 ] because they refused to enter a country where they would be forced to wear a hijab to compete in their sports . Cuisine Iranian cuisine is diverse due to its variety of ethnic groups and the influence of other cultures . Herbs are frequently used along with fruits such as plums , pomegranates , quince , prunes , apricots , and raisins . Iranians usually eat plain yogurt with lunch and dinner ; it is a staple of the diet in Iran . To achieve a balanced taste , characteristic flavourings such as saffron , dried limes , cinnamon , and parsley are mixed delicately and used in some special dishes . Onions and garlic are normally used in the preparation of the accompanying course , but are also served separately during meals , either in raw or pickled form . Iran is also famous for its caviar . [ 383 ] See also Notes ^ In the Avesta the airiia - are members of the ethnic group of the Avesta-reciters themselves , in contradistinction to the anairiia - , the "" non-Aryas "" . The word also appears four times in Old Persian : One is in the Behistun inscription , where ariya - is the name of a language or script ( DB 4.89 ) . The other three instances occur in Darius I ' s inscription at Naqsh-e Rustam ( DNa 14-15 ) , in Darius I's inscription at Susa ( DSe 13-14 ) , and in the inscription of Xerxes I at Persepolis ( XPh 12-13 ) . In these , the two Achaemenid dynasts describe themselves as pārsa pārsahyā puça ariya ariyaciça "" a Persian , son of a Persian , an Ariya , of Ariya origin . "" "" The phrase with ciça , "" origin , descendance "" , assures that it [ i.e. ariya ] is an ethnic name wider in meaning than pārsa and not a simple adjectival epithet "" . [ 37 ] Bibliography Mikaberidze , Alexander ( 2011 ) . Conflict and Conquest in the Islamic World : A Historical Encyclopedia . 1 . ABC-CLIO . ISBN 1598843362 . ^ Alireza Shapur Shahbazi ( 2005 ) , "" The History of the Idea of Iran "" , in Vesta Curtis ed . , Birth of the Persian Empire , IB Tauris , London , p. 108 : "" Similarly the collapse of Sassanian Eranshahr in AD 650 did not end Iranians' national idea . The name ' Iran ' disappeared from official records of the Saffarids , Samanids , Buyids , Saljuqs and their successor . But one unofficially used the name Iran , Eranshahr , and similar national designations , particularly Mamalek-e Iran or "" Iranian lands "" , which exactly translated the old Avestan term Ariyanam Daihunam . On the other hand , when the Safavids ( not Reza Shah , as is popularly assumed ) revived a national state officially known as Iran , bureaucratic usage in the Ottoman empire and even Iran itself could still refer to it by other descriptive and traditional appellations "" . ^ A. Fishman , Joshua ( 2010 ) . Handbook of Language and Ethnic Identity : Disciplinary and Regional Perspectives ( Volume 1 ) . Oxford University Press . p. 266 . ISBN 978-0195374926 . """" Iran "" and "" Persia "" are synonymous "" The former has always been used by the Iranian speaking peoples themselves , while the latter has served as the international name of the country in various languages ^ Christopher A Whatley ( 2001 ) . Bought and Sold for English Gold : The Union of 1707 ( Tuckwell Press , 2001 ) ^ a b Norman A. Stillman The Jews of Arab Lands p. 22 Jewish Publication Society , 1979 ISBN 0827611552 ^ a b International Congress of Byzantine Studies Proceedings of the 21st International Congress of Byzantine Studies , London , 21 – 26 August 2006 , Volumes 1 – 3 p. 29 . Ashgate Pub Co , 30 sep . 2006 ISBN 075465740X ^ a b MacKenzie , David Niel ( 1998 ) . "" Ērān , Ērānšahr "" . Encyclopedia Iranica . 8 . Costa Mesa : Mazda . ^ a b Schmitt , Rüdiger ( 1987 ) , "" Aryans "" , Encyclopedia Iranica , vol. 2 , New York : Routledge & Kegan Paul , pp. 684 – 687 ^ Laroche . 1957 . Proto-Iranian * arya - descends from Proto-Indo-European ( PIE ) * ar-yo - , a yo - adjective to a root * ar "" to assemble skillfully "" , present in Greek harma "" chariot "" , Greek aristos , ( as in "" aristocracy "" ) , Latin ars "" art "" , etc. ^ a b Bailey , Harold Walter ( 1987 ) . "" Arya "" . Encyclopedia Iranica . 2 . New York : Routledge & Kegan Paul . pp. 681 – 683 . ^ Persia , Encyclopædia Britannica , "" The term Persia was used for centuries ... [ because ] use of the name was gradually extended by the ancient Greeks and other peoples to apply to the whole Iranian plateau . "" ^ "" Renaming Persia "" . persiansarenotarabs.com . 2007 . Retrieved 26 April 2011 . ^ Richard N. Frye ( 20 October 2007 ) . interview by Asieh Namdar . CNN . I spent all my life working in Iran , and as you know I do n't mean Iran of today , I mean Greater Iran , the Iran which in the past , extended all the way from China to borders of Hungary and from other Mongolia to Mesopotamia ^ Frye , Richard Nelson ( October 1962 ) . "" Reitzenstein and Qumrân Revisited by an Iranian "" . The Harvard Theological Review . 55 ( 4 ) : 261 – 268 . doi : 10.1017 / S0017816000007926 . JSTOR 1508723 . I use the term Iran in an historical context [ ... ] Persia would be used for the modern state , more or less equivalent to "" western Iran "" . I use the term "" Greater Iran "" to mean what I suspect most Classicists and ancient historians really mean by their use of Persia – that which was within the political boundaries of States ruled by Iranians . ^ Richard Frye ( 23 May 2012 ) . Persia ( RLE Iran A ) . Routledge . p. 13 . ISBN 978-1-136-84154-5 . Retrieved 21 June 2013 . This ' greater Iran ' included and still includes part of the Caucasus Mountains , Central Asia , Afghanistan and Iraq ; for Kurds , Baluchis , Afghans , Tajiks , Ossetes , and other smaller groups are Iranians ^ Farrokh , Kaveh . Shadows in the Desert : Ancient Persia at War . ISBN 1846031087 ^ J. D. Vigne ; J. Peters ; D. Helmer ( August 2002 ) . First Steps of Animal Domestication , Proceedings of the 9th Conference of the International Council of Archaeozoology . Oxbow Books , Limited . ISBN 978-1-84217-121-9 . ^ "" Emergence of Agriculture in the Foothills of the Zagros Mountains of Iran "" , by Simone Riehl , Mohsen Zeidi , Nicholas J. Conard – University of Tübingen , publication 10 May 2013 ^ Will Durant , Age of Faith , ( Simon and Schuster , 1950 ) , 150 ; "" Repaying its debt , Sasanian art exported its forms and motives eastward into India , Turkestan , and China , westward into Syria , Asia Minor , Constantinople , the Balkans , Egypt , and Spain . "" ^ George Liska ( 1998 ) . Expanding Realism : The Historical Dimension of World Politics . Rowman & Littlefield Pub Incorporated . p. 170 . ISBN 978-0-8476-8680-3 . ^ a b Hooker , Richard ( 1996 ) . "" The Abbasid Dynasty "" . Washington State University . Archived from the original on 2011-06-29 . Retrieved 17 June 2011 . ^ Joel Carmichael ( 1967 ) . The Shaping of the Arabs . p. 235 . Retrieved 21 June 2013 . Abu Muslim , the Persian general and popular leader ^ Frye , Richard Nelson ( 1960 ) . Iran ( 2 , revised ed . ) . G. Allen & Unwin . p. 47 . Retrieved 23 June 2013 . A Persian Muslim called Abu Muslim . ^ Sayyid Fayyaz Mahmud ( 1988 ) . A Short History of Islam . Oxford University Press . p. 125 . ISBN 978-0-19-577384-2 . ^ Richard G. Hovannisian ; Georges Sabagh ( 1998 ) . The Persian Presence in the Islamic World . Cambridge University Press . p. 7 . ISBN 978-0-521-59185-0 . Retrieved 21 June 2013 . The Golden age of Islam [ ... ] attributable , in no small measure , to the vital participation of Persian men of letters , philosophers , theologians , grammarians , mathematicians , musicians , astronomers , geographers , and physicians ^ Bosworth , C. E. "" ʿAjam "" . Encyclopaedia Iranica . Archived from the original on 2016-06-25 . Retrieved 23 June 2013 . ^ Spuler , Bertold ( 1960 ) . The Muslim World . Vol. I The Age of the Caliphs . E.J. Brill . p. 29 . ISBN 0-685-23328-6 . ^ Why is there such confusion about the origins of this important dynasty , which reasserted Iranian identity and established an independent Iranian state after eight and a half centuries of rule by foreign dynasties ? RM Savory , Iran under the Safavids ( Cambridge University Press , Cambridge , 1980 ) , p. 3 . ^ Encyclopedia of Soviet law By Ferdinand Joseph Maria Feldbrugge , Gerard Pieter van den Berg , William B. Simons , Page 457 ^ Mansoori , Firooz ( 2008 ) . "" 17 "" . Studies in History , Language and Culture of Azerbaijan ( in Persian ) . Tehran : Hazar-e Kerman . p. 245 . ISBN 978-600-90271-1-8 . ^ a b А . Г . Булатова . Лакцы ( XIX – нач . XX вв . ) . Историко-этнографические очерки . – Махачкала , 2000 . ^ "" Griboedov not only extended protection to those Caucasian captives who sought to go home but actively promoted the return of even those who did not volunteer . Large numbers of Georgian and Armenian captives had lived in Iran since 1804 or as far back as 1795 . "" Fisher , William Bayne ; Avery , Peter ; Gershevitch , Ilya ; Hambly , Gavin ; Melville , Charles . The Cambridge History of Iran , Cambridge University Press – 1991 . p. 339 ^ Fereydoun Hoveyda , The Shah and the Ayatollah : Iranian Mythology and Islamic Revolution ISBN 0-275-97858-3 , Praeger Publishers ^ Guggisberg , C.A.W. ( 1961 ) . Simba : The Life of the Lion . Howard Timmins , Cape Town . ^ Parsi , Trita and Cullis , Tyler . ( July 10 , 2015 ) "" The Myth of the Iranian Military Giant "" Foreign Policy . Retrieved 11 July 2015 . Foreign Policy website ^ Karam , Joyce & Gutman , Roy , presenters . ( 5 August 2015 ) "" Middle East Institute : "" Iran Nuclear Agreement and Middle East Relations "" . Washington , DC : Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies . Retrieved 5 August 2015 . C-Span website ^ "" Iran's entry "" . Microsoft Encarta . 2008 . Archived from the original on 31 October 2009 . Retrieved July 24 , 2010 . ^ "" CIA . gov "" . CIA . gov . Archived from the original on 13 June 2007 . Retrieved 7 April 2012 . ^ U.S. Bureau of the Census , 2005 . Unpublished work tables for estimating Iran's mortality . Washington , D.C. : Population Division , International Programs Center ^ J. Harmatta in "" History of Civilizations of Central Asia "" , Chapter 14 , The Emergence of Indo-Iranians : The Indo-Iranian Languages , ed . by A. H. Dani & V.N. Masson , 1999 , p. 357 ^ "" The World Factbook : Iran "" . CIA . 2012 . People and Society . Archived from the original on 19 November 2012 . CS1 maint : Unfit url ( link ) Shaffer , Brenda ( 2003 ) . Borders and Brethren : Iran and the Challenge of Azerbaijani Identity . MIT Press . pp. 221 – 225 . ISBN 0-262-19477-5 "" There is considerable lack of consensus regarding the number of Azerbaijanis in Iran ... Most conventional estimates of the Azerbaijani population range between one-fifth to one-third of the general population of Iran , the majority claiming one-fourth . "" – "" Azerbaijani student groups in Iran claim that there are 27 million Azerbaijanis residing in Iran . "" Minahan , James ( 2002 ) . Encyclopedia of the Stateless Nations : S - Z. Greenwood Publishing Group . p. 1765 . ISBN 978-0-313-32384-3 "" Approximately ( 2002e ) 18,500,000 Southern Azeris in Iran , concentrated in the northwestern provinces of East and West Azerbaijan . It is difficult to determine the exact number of Southern Azeris in Iran , as official statistics are not published detailing Iran's ethnic structure . Estimates of the Southern Azeri population range from as low as 12 million up to 40 % of the population of Iran – that is , nearly 27 million ... "" ^ Rasmus Christian Elling , Minorities in Iran : Nationalism and Ethnicity after Khomeini , Palgrave Macmillan , 2013 . Excerpt : "" The number of Azeris in Iran is heavily disputed . In 2005 , Amanolahi estimated all Turkic-speaking communities in Iran to number no more than 9 million . CIA and Library of congress estimates range from 16 percent to 24 percent – that is , 12 – 18 million people if we employ the latest total figure for Iran's population ( 77 . 8 million ) . Azeri ethnicsts , on the other hand , argue that overall number is much higher , even as much as 50 percent or more of the total population . Such inflated estimates may have influenced some Western scholars who suggest that up to 30 percent ( that is , some 23 million today ) Iranians are Azeris . "" [ 1 ] ^ Ali Gheissari . Contemporary Iran : Economy , Society – Politics : Economy , Society , Politics . Page 300 . "" Azeri ethnonationalist activist , however , claim that number to be 24 million , hence as high as 35 percent of the Iranian population . "" Oxford University Press . 2 April 2009 . ^ Bhabani Sen Gupta ( 1987 ) . The Persian Gulf and South Asia : prospects and problems of inter-regional cooperation . South Asian Publishers . p. 158 . ISBN 978-81-7003-077-5 . Shias constitute seventy-five percent of the population of the Gulf . Of this , ninety-five percent of Iranians and sixty of Iraqis are Shias . ^ Country Information and Guidance "" Christians and Christian converts , Iran "" December 2014 . p. 9 ^ David Levinson ; Karen Christensen ( 2002 ) . Encyclopedia of Modern Asia : Iaido to Malay . Charles Scribner's Sons . p. 48 . ISBN 978-0-684-80617-4 . ^ Arthur John Arberry , The Legacy of Persia , Oxford : Clarendon Press , 1953 , ISBN 0-19-821905-9 , p. 200 . ^ Von David Levinson ; Karen Christensen , Encyclopedia of Modern Asia , Charles Scribner's Sons . 2002 p. 48 ^ Philip G. Kreyenbroek : "" Morals and Society in Zoroastrian Philosophy "" in "" Persian Philosophy "" . Companion Encyclopedia of Asian Philosophy : Brian Carr and Indira Mahalingam . Routledge , 2009 . ^ Mary Boyce : "" The Origins of Zoroastrian Philosophy "" in "" Persian Philosophy "" . Companion Encyclopedia of Asian Philosophy : Brian Carr and Indira Mahalingam . Routledge , 2009 . ^ An Anthology of Philosophy in Persia . From Zoroaster to ' Umar Khayyam . S. H. Nasr & M. Aminrazavi . I. B. Tauris Publishers , London & New York , 2008 . ISBN 978-1845115418 . ^ [ "" Parthians taught their young men songs about the deeds both of gods and of the noblest men . "" – Strabo ' s Geographica , 15.3.18 ] ^ ( Lawergren 2009 ) iv . First millennium C.E. ( 1 ) Sasanian music , 224 – 651 . ^ "" DANCE "" . iranicaonline.org . Retrieved 26 October 2015 . ^ Kiann , Nima ( 2015 ) . The History of Ballet in Iran . Wiesbaden : Reichert Publishingi ^ Honour , Hugh and John Fleming , The Visual Arts : A History . New Jersey , Prentice Hall Inc. , 1992 . Page : 96 . Iran – Weekly program that explores Iran's past , present and future with exclusive reports . ( PressTV )"	Information/Explanation
420	Design : Futuristic and aerodynamic with an aggressive look for competition . Used by Team Liquigas Bianchi . Adjustment : Adjustable size from 54 to 59 . The new CATEYES SYSTEM allows height and tension to be adjusted while on the move . Ventilation : Tested and developed using the wind tunnel , it has exceptional interior climate control thanks to an efficient ventilation system . Thanks to the triple wing directing the air to the vents allows air to be circulated around the head . Excellent ventilation without compromising aerodynamics . Inside : Removable and washable inside padding made of OUTLAST fabric , the most innovative fabric on the market and is used by NASA and has been awarded the Space Technology Certificate . OUTLAST is a heat regulator that keeps the temperature constant . A cotton anti-insect net is combined with the padding . Weight : 280g	Promotion
799	"What are stem cells ? Stem cells are the foundation cells for every organ , tissue and cell in the body . They are undifferentiated , "" blank "" cells that do not yet have a specific function . Under proper conditions , they have the potential to develop into many different cell types in the body . Additionally , stem cells are self-sustaining and can replicate themselves for long periods of time . These unique characteristics make stem cells very promising for supplying cells to treat debilitating diseases like Alzheimer's disease , cancer , Parkinson's disease , type-1 diabetes , spinal cord injury , stroke , burns , heart disease , osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis . Research is now being conducted on both adult and embryonic stem cells to determine the characteristics and potential of both to cure disease ."	Information/Explanation
876	"Praying for a "" work in progress "" people group Some tips on how to pray Pray For The Translators that the people will welcome them that no one will harm them that they will not let anyone or anything distract them from doing God's will that they will have God's wisdom in how to relate to the people that will set a good example by their attitudes that they will have adequate housing that they will be diligent in learning the language and meeting the people that they will make it a priority to fellowship with the Lord each day that they will demonstrate the fruit of the Spirit in their relationships that God will lead them to His choice of people for translation work that they will know how to show God's love in spite of cultural differences Pray For The People that they will be patient and helpful in teaching and helping the translators that they will not have false ideas or unreal expectations of the translators that they will take pride in their language and help the translators learn it that they will be seekers after truth and the true God , open to the Gospel that they will be preparing their future pastors , evangelists , and teachers that they will be protected from outsiders who would exploit them that no one will foment resentment , shame or hatred among or against them that education will be esteemed and those who get it will help their people that they will seek God's help and wisdom in opposing evil within and without that their churches will model the good and beautiful aspects of their culture that they will have adequate food , healthy bodies , and be spiritually strong that they will become "" people of the Book , "" true followers of Christ ( developed by Wycliffe USA )"	Promotion
1255	Many people are cautious towards the remedies that involve chemical substances and prefer home-based or natural remedies . Herbal treatments regarding the teeth have been known to man since centuries . These include the usage of vinegar , lemon and baking soda etc. For a glittery smile try dabbing your toothbrush with some baking soda before brushing . The results will not let you down . But , in order to avoid the unusual taste of soda , it can be combined with toothpaste as well . Another treatment is rubbing the teeth with crushed powder of the dried rinds of orange and lemon ; you can even add some salt to this mixture to improve its effectiveness .	Instruction
698	Advantage understands that the only industry that matters to customers is the industry that they operate in . With over ten years experience implementing business solutions across a range of industries , Advantage has an in-depth knowledge of the processes that drive customers' businesses and understands the unique demands of their industries . To learn about some of the customers Advantage has worked with within a number of key vertical markets , follow the industry links below :	Promotion
1099	"Human Rights Act 1998 An Act to give further effect to rights and freedoms guaranteed under the European Convention on Human Rights ; to make provision with respect to holders of certain judicial offices who become judges of the European Court of Human Rights ; and for connected purposes . Sub-s ( 1 ) : in para ( c ) words "" Article 1 of the Thirteenth Protocol "" in square brackets substituted by SI 2004 / 1574 , art 2 ( 1 ) . Date in force : 22 June 2004 : see SI 2004 / 1574 , art 1 . Sub-s ( 4 ) : words "" Secretary of State "" in square brackets substituted by SI 2003 / 1887 , art 9 , Sch 2 , para 10 ( 1 ) . Date in force : 19 August 2003 : see SI 2003 / 1887 , art 1 ( 2 ) . Relates to Human Rights Act 1998 ( Amendment ) Order 2004 , SI 2004 / 1574 ( made under sub-s ( 4 )) . In particular , the Act makes it unlawful for any public body to act in a way which is incompatible with the Convention , unless the wording of any other primary legislation provides no other choice . It also requires the judiciary ( including tribunals ) to take account of any decisions , judgment or opinion of the European Court of Human Rights , and to interpret legislation , as far as possible , in a way which is compatible with Convention rights . However , if it is not possible to interpret an Act of Parliament so as to make it compatible with the Convention , the judges are not allowed to override it . All they can do is issue a declaration of incompatibility . This declaration does not affect the validity of the Act of Parliament : in that way , the Human Rights Act seeks to maintain the principle of Parliamentary sovereignty ( see : Constitution of the United Kingdom ) . However , judges may strike down secondary legislation . Under the Act , individuals retain the right to sue in the Strasbourg court . The Convention was drafted by the Council of Europe after World War II . Sir David Maxwell-Fyfe was the Chair of the Committee on Legal and Administrative Questions of the Council's Consultative Assembly from 1949 to 1952 , and oversaw the drafting of the European Convention on Human Rights . It was designed to incorporate a traditional civil liberties approach to securing "" effective political democracy "" , from the strong traditions of freedom and liberty in the United Kingdom . As a founding member of the Council of Europe , the UK acceded to the European Convention on Human Rights in March 1951 . However it was not until the 1960s that British citizens were able to bring claims in the European Court of Human Rights ( ECtHR ) . During the 1980s , groups such as Charter 88 ( which invoked the 300th anniversary of the Glorious Revolution in 1688 and the Bill of Rights 1689 ) accused the executive of misusing its power and argued that a new British Bill of Rights was needed to secure human rights in the UK . In its manifesto for the 1997 general election , the Labour party pledged to incorporate the European Convention into domestic law . When the election resulted in a landslide Labour victory , the party , under the leadership of Tony Blair , fulfilled this pledge through Parliamentary passage of the Human Rights Act the following year . The 1997 white paper "" Rights Brought Home "" [ 3 ] stated : It takes on average five years to get an action into the European Court of Human Rights once all domestic remedies have been exhausted ; and it costs an average of £ 30 , 000 . Bringing these rights home will mean that the British people will be able to argue for their rights in the British courts – without this inordinate delay and cost . The Human Rights Act places a duty on all courts and tribunals in the United Kingdom to interpret legislation so far as possible in a way compatible with the rights laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights ( section 3 ( 1 )) . Where this is not possible , the court may issue a "" declaration of incompatibility "" . The declaration does not invalidate the legislation , but permits the amendment of the legislation by a special fast-track procedure under section 10 of the Act . As of August 2006 , 20 declarations had been made , of which six were overturned on appeal . The Human Rights Act applies to all public bodies within the United Kingdom , including central government , local authorities , and bodies exercising public functions . However , it does not include Parliament when it is acting in its legislative capacities . Section 3 is a particularly wide provision that requires courts to interpret both primary and subordinate legislation so that their provisions are compatible with the articles of the European Convention of Human Rights which are also part of the Human Rights Act . [ 4 ] This interpretation goes far beyond normal statutory interpretation , [ 4 ] and includes past and future legislation , therefore preventing the Human Rights act from being impliedly repealed . [ 5 ] Courts have applied this through three forms of interpretation , "" reading in "" – inserting words where there are none in a statute ; "" reading out "" where words are omitted from a statute ; and "" reading down "" where a particular meaning is chosen to be in compliance . [ 6 ] They do not interpret statutes to conflict with legislative intent , and courts have been reluctant in particular to "" read out "" provisions for this reason . If it is not possible to so interpret , they may issue a declaration of incompatibility under section 4 . [ 7 ] Section 9 limits the right to claim against judicial acts made by the UK such that effectively a claim under the Act is possible only by exercising a right of appeal as set out by the Access to Justice Act 1999 Sections 4 and 10 allows courts to issue a declaration of incompatibility where it is impossible to use section 3 to interpret primary or subordinate legislation to be compatible with the articles of the European Convention of Human Rights , which are also part of the Human Rights Act . [ 8 ] In these cases , interpretation to comply may conflict with legislative intent . [ 9 ] It is considered a measure of last resort . A range of superior courts can issue a declaration of incompatibility . [ 8 ] A declaration of incompatibility is not binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made , [ 8 ] nor can a declaration invalidate legislation . [ 10 ] Section 4 therefore achieves its aim through political rather than legal means . Section 10 gives a government minister the power to make a "" remedial order "" in response to either a declaration of incompatibility , from which there is no possibility of appeal , [ 11 ] or a ruling of the European Court of Human Rights A remedial order may "" make such amendments to the legislation as [ the Minister ] considers necessary to remove the incompatibility "" . [ 12 ] Remedial orders do not require full legislative approval , [ 10 ] but must be approved by resolutions of each House of Parliament . In especially urgent cases , Parliamentary approval may be retroactive . [ 13 ] Remedial orders may have retroactive effect , but no one may be guilty of a criminal offence solely as the result of the retroactive effect of a remedial order . [ 14 ] Section 10 has been used to make small adjustments to bring legislation into line with Convention rights although entirely new pieces of legislation are sometimes necessary . [ 15 ] As of December 2014 , 29 declarations of incompatibility have been issued , of which [ 16 ] 8 have been struck down on appeal 1 is pending appeal , as of December 2014 16 have been remedied through the ordinary legislative process ( including amendment or repeal of the offending legislation ) . 3 have been addressed through remedial orders 1 has not been remedied . The one case not to have been remedied , as of December 2014 , is Smith v. Scott , concerning the right of serving prisoners to vote in the UK . [ 16 ] Although the Act , by its own terms , applies only to public bodies , it has had increasing influence on private law litigation between individual citizens leading some academics to state that it has horizontal effect as well as vertical effect ( as in disputes between the state and citizens ) . This is because section 6 ( 1 ) of the Human Rights Act defines courts and tribunals as public bodies meaning their judgments must comply with human rights obligations except in cases of declarations of incompatibility . Therefore , judges have a duty to act in compatibility with the Convention even when an action is a private one between two citizens . Many rights established under the Human Rights Act 1998 were already protected under UK law ( such as freedom ) , but the purpose of the Act was largely to establish the European Convention of Human Rights in British law . This provision was not required by the European Convention ( protocol 6 permits the death penalty in time of war ; protocol 13 , which prohibits the death penalty for all circumstances , did not then exist ) ; rather , the government introduced it as a late amendment in response to parliamentary pressure . The Act provides that it is unlawful for a "" public authority "" to act in such a way as to contravene "" Convention rights "" . [ 17 ] For these purposes public authority includes any other person "" whose functions are functions of a public nature . "" [ 18 ] It also explicitly includes the Courts . [ 19 ] Convention rights includes only those rights specified in section 1 of the Act ( these are recited in full in Schedule 1 ) . [ 20 ] In the interpretation of those rights the Act provides that the domestic Courts "" may "" take into account the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights ( ECtHR ) . [ 21 ] Section 7 enables any person with standing ( as stipulated by Article 34 of the Convention ) to raise an action against a public authority which has acted or proposes to act in such a Convention-contravening manner . [ 22 ] This is a more rigorous standard than is ordinarily applied to standing in English , although not Scottish , judicial review . If it is held that the public authority has violated the claimant ' s Convention rights , then the Court is empowered to "" grant such relief or remedy , or make such order , within its powers as it considers just and appropriate . "" [ 23 ] This can include an award of damages , although the Act provides limitations on the Court's capacity to make such an award . [ 24 ] However , the Act also provides a defence for public authorities if their Convention violating act is in pursuance of a mandatory obligation imposed upon them by Westminster primary legislation . [ 25 ] The Act envisages that this will ordinarily be a difficult standard to meet though since it requires the Courts to read such legislation ( and for that matter subordinate legislation ) "" So far as it is possible to do so ... in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights . "" [ 26 ] Where it is impossible to read primary legislation in a Convention compliant manner , the only sanction available to the Courts is to make a Declaration of Incompatibility in respect of it . [ 27 ] The power to do so is restricted to the higher Courts . [ 28 ] Such a Declaration has no direct impact upon the continuing force of the legislation but it is likely to produce public pressure upon the government to remove the incompatibility . It also strengthens the case of a claimant armed with such a decision from the domestic Courts in any subsequent appeal to ECtHR . In order to provide swift compliance with the Convention the Act allows Ministers to take remedial action to amend even offending primary legislation via subordinate legislation . [ 29 ] Lee Clegg ' s murder conviction gave rise to the first case invoking the Act , brought by The Times in October 2000 which sought to overturn a libel ruling against the newspaper . Campbell v. MGN Ltd. [ 2002 ] EWCA Civ 1373 , Naomi Campbell and Sara Cox both sought to assert their right to privacy under the Act . Both cases were successful for the complainant ( Campbell's on the second attempt ; Cox's attempt was not judicially decided but an out of court settlement was reached before the issue could be tested in court ) and an amendment to British law to incorporate a provision for privacy is expected to be introduced . Venables and Thompson v. News Group Newspapers [ 2001 ] 1 All ER 908 , the James Bulger murder case tested whether the Article 8 ( privacy ) rights of Venables and Thomson , the convicted murderers of Bulger , applied when four newspapers sought to publish their new identities and whereabouts , using their Article 10 rights of freedom of expression . The judge , Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss , granted permanent global injunctions ordering that the material not be published because of the disastrous consequences such disclosure might have for the former convicts , not least the possibility of physical harm or death ( hence claims for Article 2 rights ( right to life ) were entertained , and sympathised with ) . R. v. Chauhan and Hollingsworth : Amesh Chauhan and Dean Hollingsworth were photographed by a speed camera in 2000 . As is standard practice for those caught in this way , they were sent a form by the police asking them to identify who was driving the vehicle at the time . They protested under the Human Rights Act , arguing that they could not be required to give evidence against themselves . An initial judgment , by Judge Peter Crawford at Birmingham Crown Court , ruled in their favour [ 30 ] but this was later reversed . The same issue came to light in Scotland with Procurator Fiscal v Brown [ 2000 ] UKPC D3 , [ 31 ] in which a woman , when apprehended on suspicion of theft of a bottle of gin , was drunk and was asked by police to identify who had been driving her car ( which was nearby ) at the time she arrived at the superstore . Price v. Leeds City Council [ 2005 ] : [ 32 ] On 16 March 2005 the Court of Appeal upheld a High Court ruling that Leeds City Council could not infringe the right to a home of a Romani family , the Maloneys , by evicting them from public land . The court however referred the case to the House of Lords as this decision conflicted with a ruling from the European Court of Human Rights ( ECtHR ) . In March 2006 , [ citation needed ] the High Court in London ruled against a hospital's bid to turn off the ventilator that kept the child , known as Baby MB , alive . The 19-month-old baby has the genetic condition spinal muscular atrophy , which leads to almost total paralysis . The parents of the child fought for his right to life , despite claims from medics that the invasive ventilation would cause an ' intolerable life ' . Connors v. UK , [ 33 ] a judgment given by ECtHR , declared that travellers who had their licences to live on local authority-owned land suddenly revoked had been discriminated against , in comparison to the treatment of mobile-home owners who did not belong to the traveller population , and thus their Article 14 ( protection from discrimination ) and Article 8 ( right to respect for the home ) rights had been infringed . However , there has never been a case where the Act has been successfully invoked to allow travellers to remain on greenbelt land , and indeed the prospects of this ever happening seem highly unlikely after the House of Lords decision in Kay v Lambeth LBC which severely restricted the occasions on which Article 8 may be invoked to protect someone from eviction in the absence of some legal right over the land . Afghan hijackers case 2006 , in May 2006 , a politically controversial decision regarding the treatment of nine Afghan men who hijacked a plane to flee from the Taliban , caused widespread condemnation by many tabloid newspapers ( most notably The Sun ) , the broadsheets and the leaders of both the Labour Party and the Conservative Party . It was ruled by an Immigration Tribunal , under the Human Rights Act , that the hijackers could remain in the United Kingdom ; a subsequent court decision ruled that the government had abused its power in restricting the hijackers' right to work . During the campaign for the 2005 parliamentary elections the Conservatives under Baron Howard declared their intention to "" overhaul or scrap "" the Human Rights Act : The time had come to liberate the nation from the avalanche of political correctness , costly litigation , feeble justice , and culture of compensation running riot in Britain today and warning that the politically correct regime ushered in by Labour's enthusiastic adoption of human rights legislation has turned the age-old principle of fairness on its head "" . [ 34 ] The schoolboy arsonist allowed back into the classroom because enforcing discipline apparently denied his right to education ; the convicted rapist given £ 4000 compensation because his second appeal was delayed ; the burglar given taxpayers' money to sue the man whose house he broke into ; travellers who thumb their nose at the law allowed to stay on green belt sites they have occupied in defiance of planning laws "" . [ 35 ] [ 36 ] The schoolboy referred to by Mr Howard was suing for compensation , not to be allowed back into the classroom , since he was already a university student at the time of the court case . [ 37 ] In addition , the claim was rejected . [ 38 ] The Human Rights Act prior to its introduction , it would result in unelected judges making substantive judgments about government policies and "" legislating "" in their amendments to the common law resulting in a usurpation of Parliament's legislative supremacy and an expansion of the UK courts' justiciability . R ( on the application of Daly ) v Secretary of State for the Home Department highlights how the introduction of a proportionality test borrowed from ECtHR jurisprudence has allowed a greater scrutiny of the substantive merits of a government's policy , meaning that judicial review has become more of an appeal than a review . [ citation needed ] The interpretative obligation under section 3 ( 1 ) of the Human Rights Act to read primary legislation as Convention compliant , so far as is possible , is not dependent upon the presence of ambiguity in legislation . [ 39 ] Section 3 ( 1 ) could require the court to depart from the unambiguous meaning that legislation would otherwise bear subject to the constraint that this modified interpretation must be one "" possible "" interpretation of the legislation . [ 40 ] Paul Craig argues that this results in the courts adopting linguistically strained interpretations instead of issuing declarations of incompatibility . Rulings based on the Human rights Act have been criticised by Lady Hale . In 2011 she said that the Act was overused , and criticised the decision of European human rights judges to give prisoners the vote . [ 41 ] In 2008 , Paul Dacre ( as editor of the Daily Mail ) criticised the Human Rights Act for allowing , in effect , a right to privacy at English law despite the fact that Parliament has not passed such legislation . [ citation needed ] He was referring to the indirect horizontal effect of the Human Rights Act on the doctrine of breach of confidence which has moved English law closer towards a common law right to privacy . [ 42 ] In response , Baron Falconer ( as Lord Chancellor ) stated that the Human Rights Act had been passed by Parliament , that people's private lives needed protection and that the judge in the case had interpreted relevant authorities correctly . [ 43 ] In contrast , some have argued that the Human Rights Act does not give adequate protection to rights because of the ability for the government to derogate from Convention rights under article 15 . Recent cases such as R ( ProLife Alliance ) v. BBC [ 2002 ] EWCA Civ 297 have been decided in reference to common law rights rather than statutory rights leading to the possibility of judicial activism . [ 44 ] Senior Labour politicians have criticised the Human Rights Act and the willingness of the judiciary to invoke declarations on incompatibility against terrorism legislation . Baron Reid argued that the Human Rights Act was hampering the fight against global terrorism in regard to controversial control orders : There is a very serious threat – and I am the first to admit that the means we have of fighting it are so inadequate that we are fighting with one arm tied behind our backs . So I hope when we bring forward proposals in the next few weeks that we will have a little less party politics and a little more support for national security . [ 45 ] In 2007 , Howard's successor as Leader of the Opposition , David Cameron , vowed to repeal the Human Rights Act if he was elected , instead replacing it with a ' Bill of Rights ' for Britain . [ 46 ] The human rights organisation JUSTICE released a discussion paper entitled A Bill of Rights for Britain ? , examining the case for updating the Human Rights Act with an entrenched bill . [ 47 ] In 2011 , following controversial rulings from both the European Court of Human Rights ( ECtHR ) and the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom , David Cameron suggested a "" British Bill of Rights "" . [ 49 ] The government commission set up to investigate the case for a Bill of Rights had a split of opinion . [ 50 ] Judge Dean Spielmann , the President of ECtHR , warned in 2013 that the United Kingdom could not withdraw from the Convention on Human Rights without jeopardising its membership of the European Union . [ 51 ] In 2014 , the Conservative Party planned to repeal the Act and replace it with a "" British Bill of Rights "" . [ 52 ] Following the 2015 election win for the Conservative Party , Michael Gove , the Secretary of State for Justice , was charged with implementing the reforms which were previously blocked by the Liberal Democrats in the coalition government . [ 53 ] The Conservative Party manifesto said that the new bill will "" break the formal link between British Courts and the European Court of Human Rights "" . [ 54 ] This would mean that human rights cases under the ECtHR would have to go to a court in Strasbourg rather than being able to be tried in the UK . [ 55 ] Civil liberty advocates have expressed concern that the proposed changes would "" erode the right to life , the right to privacy , the right to a fair trial , the right to protest and the right to freedom from torture and discrimination "" . [ 56 ] ^ The full text of Schedule 1 ( along with that of the rest of the Act ) can be found at the Office of Public Sector Information Website : [ 1 ] ^ Cf . sections 8 ( 2 ) - ( 5 ) and Section 9 ( 2 ) - ( 3 ) which provides additional protection to the Courts . ^ Phillipson , Gavin ( 2003 ) . "" Transforming Breach of Confidence ? Towards a Common Law Right of Privacy under the Human Rights Act "" . Modern Law Review . 66 ( 5 ) : 726 – 758 . doi : 10.1111 / 1468-2230 . 6605003 . ^ Gallop , Nick in The Constitution and Constitutional Reform p. 60 ( Philip Allan , 2011 ) ISBN 978-0-340-98720-9 Hoffman , David ; Rowe , John ( 2006 ) . Human Rights in the UK : an Introduction to the Human Rights Act 1998 ( 2nd ed . ) . Harlow , United Kingdom : Pearson Longman . ISBN 1-4058-2393-3 . Amos , Merris ( 2013 ) . "" Transplanting Human Rights Norms : The Case of the United Kingdom's Human Rights Act "" . Human Rights Quarterly . 35 ( 2 ) : 386 – 407 . doi : 10.1353 / hrq . 2013 . 0021 ."	Information/Explanation
1036	The drawings in a patent specification will probably be original artistic works that are protected by copyright . The author , or creator , of the drawings or his employer will probably be the owner of copyright . Making an article to the design shown in the drawings may also be protected by automatic design right or you might be able to apply for a registered design regarding the shape of the article if it is aesthetically pleasing . All this is in addition to any patent rights you may get for what is shown in the drawing . However , you should be aware that in many cases , other people will be able to copy the patent specification once it has been published .	Legal
1316	"After just one year of availability , Sony has announced that it will be dropping its European PSP wireless communication package Go ! Messenger . The package , which was jointly developed by Sony and BT , allows users to send voice , video and instant messages to other Go ! Messenger users from any wireless Internet connection , and will work over wireless Internet - including that provided by the 2 , 500-plus BT Openzone hotspots around UK city centers . The service , although interesting , lacked users , and Sony decided it was time pull the plug . "" Although Go ! Messenger brought innovative communications features to the PSP community , the service has not developed the base of users that we were hoping for , "" noted Sony . "" Although it proved a popular concept , achieving a significant number of registrations , it did n't gain the number of regular users that BT and SCEE were aiming for . "" Truphone , a new freeware application for the iPod Touch , promises to use the media player 's built in Wi-Fi to turn the device into a virtual mobile phone where owners can make phone calls using Skype . Although you can currently only make calls to other iPod or iPhone users using the app , the developers say calls to landlines will be in place in the near future . Geraldine Wilson , Truphone's CEO , added : "" There are a slew of new features we 're rolling out for the iPod Touch that will let users call landlines , Skype users or send instant messages . We 're talking weeks , not months , before these go live . """	News
1364	Trektop NX covers come in a variety of builds and sizes , as many as the Jeeps they are meant to cover . This ensures that whatever the model or make of Jeep , there is one cover made just for it . Regardless of the temperature , the cover will maintain its shape , like the jeep . They block out UV rays , protecting the occupants of the car from the harsh sun in all circumstances . Cleverly and ruggedly built , the covers incorporate multiple layers of fabric , making them very durable and strong . Depending on the personal desires of the Jeep owners , the covers come with doors and windows built in or non-existent , or just there for them to install and remove at will . Many more design features keep these covers top of the league . To make it even more united to the Jeep , the covers utilize the vehicle's sport bars ( for Wranglers ) to shape provide them with shape giving it a stylish look different from all other covers which may want to be used . Whatever one's needs , desires , style ... as long as they are rugged like the Jeeps they drive , and stylish too , there is a cover made just for it , to complement and complete the Jeep .	Promotion
1599	"According to Dr. Nicogossian , the office is actively engaged in teaching , outreach and fostering an interdisciplinary program of research and training activities . Several research grants have been funded or are in the preparation and review process for funding . To this end the office has partnered with George Mason's College of Arts and Sciences ( specifically the Center for Biodefense ) , the College of Nursing and Health Sciences , the School of Computational Sciences and the Mason Enterprise Center . The office hosted a fact finding workshop in October , attended by representatives of such organizations as the American Red Cross , Lockheed Martin and NASA , Battelle , Yale University , the College of Nursing and Health Sciences and the Center for Biodefense to explore the feasibility of protecting the nation's blood supply from bioterrorism using bio-markers to identify bioterrorist events . This workshop garnered more funding for additional research in this topic . Also , NASA awarded the office a grant for the evaluation and development of medical care and health policy generation processes for operations in extreme environments . "" The School of Public Policy is the right place to do this , "" said Nicogossian . "" Many public policy students will eventually work in the DC area , helping formulate health policy in the 21st century . We want to give them-non-health professionals-an understanding of major issues . Very few courses are offered in international medical and health policy to non-medical professionals . I am very encouraged by the support I am getting from the SPP leadership "" Dean Kingsley Haynes has appointed an advisory scientific and technical committee chaired by Dr. Thomas Zimmerman , chief scientific officer of Visual Learning Systems , to advise Dr. Nicogossian and ensure an interdisciplinary nature of the activities . Members of the advisory committee are : Dr. Menas Kafatos , dean of Computational Sciences at GMU ; Dr. Vikas Chandhoke , associate dean for research at GMU's College of Arts and Sciences ; Dr. Ellen M. Dawson , assistant dean of GMU's College of Nursing and Health Sciences ; Carlos E. Sluzki , M.D. , of the Institute for Conflict Analysis and Resolution ; Dr. Catherine Rudder , director of the master 's in public policy program ; and Major General Michael K. Wyrick , USAF ( Ret. ) , executive director of the Northern Virginia Hospital Alliance ."	News
820	What the Victory Or Defeat of Germany Means to Every American ( 1917 ) In the Arena : Stories of Political Life ( 1919 ) The Collector's Whatnot : A Compendium , Manual , And Syllabus of Information And Advice On All Subjects Appertaining to the Collection of Antiques , Both Ancient And Not So Ancient ( 1923 ) Just Princeton : The Place And the Idea ( 1924 ) The World Does Move : An Autobiographical Narrative ( 1929 ) Some Old Portraits : A Book About Art And Human Beings ( 1939 ) What We 've Got to Do ( 1942 ) Booth Tarkington On Dogs ( 1944 ) An open letter from Booth Tarkington ( 1945 ) Your Amiable Uncle : Letters to His Nephews ( 1949 ) On Plays , Playwrights , And Playgoers : Selections from the Letters of Booth Tarkington to George C. Tyler And John Peter Toohey , 1918-1925	Information/Explanation
127	"The Basic search help article covers all the most common issues , but sometimes you need a little bit more power . This document will highlight the more advanced features of Google Web Search . Have in mind though that even very advanced searchers , such as the members of the search group at Google , use these features less than 5 % of the time . Basic simple search is often enough . As always , we use square brackets [ ] to denote queries , so [ to be or not to be ] is an example of a query ; [ to be ] or [ not to be ] are two examples of queries . Phrase search ( "" "" ) By putting double quotes around a set of words , you are telling Google to consider the exact words in that exact order without any change . Google already uses the order and the fact that the words are together as a very strong signal and will stray from it only for a good reason , so quotes are usually unnecessary . By insisting on phrase search you might be missing good results accidentally . For example , a search for [ "" Alexander Bell "" ] ( with quotes ) will miss the pages that refer to Alexander G. Bell . Search within a specific website ( site : ) Google allows you to specify that your search results must come from a given website . For example , the query [ iraq site : nytimes . com ] will return pages about Iraq but only from nytimes . com . The simpler queries [ iraq nytimes . com ] or [ iraq New York Times ] will usually be just as good , though they might return results from other sites that mention the New York Times . You can also specify a whole class of sites , for example [ iraq site : . gov ] will return results only from a . gov domain and [ iraq site : . iq ] will return results only from Iraqi sites . Terms you want to exclude ( - ) Attaching a minus sign immediately before a word indicates that you do not want pages that contain this word to appear in your results . The minus sign should appear immediately before the word and should be preceded with a space . For example , in the query [ anti-virus software ] , the minus sign is used as a hyphen and will not be interpreted as an exclusion symbol ; whereas the query [ anti-virus - software ] will search for the words ' anti-virus ' but exclude references to software . You can exclude as many words as you want by using the - sign in front of all of them , for example [ jaguar - cars - football - os ] . The - sign can be used to exclude more than just words . For example , place a hyphen before the ' site : ' operator ( without a space ) to exclude a specific site from your search results . Fill in the blanks ( * ) The * , or wildcard , is a little-known feature that can be very powerful . If you include * within a query , it tells Google to try to treat the star as a placeholder for any unknown term ( s ) and then find the best matches . For example , the search [ Google * ] will give you results about many of Google's products ( go to next page and next page -- we have many products ) . The query [ Obama voted * on the * bill ] will give you stories about different votes on different bills . Note that the * operator works only on whole words , not parts of words . Search exactly as is ( + ) Google employs synonyms automatically , so that it finds pages that mention , for example , childcare for the query [ child care ] ( with a space ) , or California history for the query [ ca history ] . But sometimes Google helps out a little too much and gives you a synonym when you do n't really want it . By attaching a + immediately before a word ( remember , do n't add a space after the + ) , you are telling Google to match that word precisely as you typed it . Putting double quotes around a single word will do the same thing . The OR operator Google's default behavior is to consider all the words in a search . If you want to specifically allow either one of several words , you can use the OR operator ( note that you have to type ' OR ' in ALL CAPS ) . For example , [ San Francisco Giants 2004 OR 2005 ] will give you results about either one of these years , whereas [ San Francisco Giants 2004 2005 ] ( without the OR ) will show pages that include both years on the same page . The symbol | can be substituted for OR . ( The AND operator , by the way , is the default , so it is not needed . ) Exceptions Search is rarely absolute . Search engines use a variety of techniques to imitate how people think and to approximate their behavior . As a result , most rules have exceptions . For example , the query [ for better or for worse ] will not be interpreted by Google as an OR query , but as a phrase that matches a ( very popular ) comic strip . Google will show calculator results for the query [ 34 * 87 ] rather than use the ' Fill in the blanks' operator . Both cases follow the obvious intent of the query . Here is a list of exceptions to some of the rules and guidelines that were mentioned in this and the Basic Search Help article : Exceptions to ' Every word matters ' Words that are commonly used , like ' the , ' ' a , ' and ' for , ' are usually ignored ( these are called stop words ) . But there are even exceptions to this exception . The search [ the who ] likely refers to the band ; the query [ who ] probably refers to the World Health Organization -- Google will not ignore the word ' the ' in the first query . Synonyms might replace some words in your original query . ( Adding + before a word disables synonyms . ) A particular word might not appear on a page in your results if there is sufficient other evidence that the page is relevant . The evidence might come from language analysis that Google has done or many other sources . For example , the query [ overhead view of the bellagio pool ] will give you nice overhead pictures from pages that do not include the word ' overhead . ' Punctuation that is not ignored Punctuation in popular terms that have particular meanings , like [ C ++ ] or [ C # ] ( both are names of programming languages ) , are not ignored . The dollar sign ( $ ) is used to indicate prices . [ nikon 400 ] and [ nikon $ 400 ] will give different results . The hyphen - is sometimes used as a signal that the two words around it are very strongly connected . ( Unless there is no space after the - and a space before it , in which case it is a negative sign . ) The underscore symbol _ is not ignored when it connects two words , e . g . [ quick_sort ] ."	Instruction
140	"I thought I 'd tell you a little about what I like to write . And I like to immerse myself in my topics . I just like to dive right in and become sort of a human guinea pig . And I see my life as a series of experiments . So , I work for Esquire magazine , and a couple of years ago I wrote an article called "" My Outsourced Life , "" where I hired a team of people in Bangalore , India , to live my life for me . So they answered my emails . They answered my phone . They argued with my wife for me , and they read my son bedtime stories . It was the best month of my life , because I just sat back and I read books and watched movies . It was a wonderful experience . More recently , I wrote an article for Esquire called -- about radical honesty . And this is a movement -- this is started by a psychologist in Virginia , who says that you should never , ever lie , except maybe during poker and golf , his only exceptions . And , more than that , whatever is on your brain should come out of your mouth . I decided I would try this for a month . This was the worst month of my life . ( Laughter ) I do not recommend this at all . To give you a sense of the experience , the article was called , "" I Think You 're Fat . "" ( Laughter ) So , that was hard . My most recent book -- my previous book was called "" The Know-it-All , "" and it was about the year I spent reading the Encyclopedia Britannica from A to Z in my quest to learn everything in the world , or more precisely from A-ak , which is a type of East Asian music , all the way to Zwyiec , which is -- well , I do n't want to ruin the ending . ( Laughter ) It 's a very exciting twist ending , like an O. Henry novel , so I wo n ' t ruin it . But I love that one because that was an experiment about how much information one human brain could absorb , although , listening to Kevin Kelly , you do n't have to remember anything . You can just Google it . So I wasted some time there . I love those experiments , but I think that the most profound and life-changing experiment that I 've done is my most recent experiment , where I spent a year trying to follow all of the rules of the Bible -- "" The Year of Living Biblically . "" And I undertook this for two reasons . The first was that I grew up with no religion at all . As I say in my book , I 'm Jewish in the same way the Olive Garden is Italian . ( Laughter ) So , not very . But I 've become increasingly interested in religion . I do think it 's the defining issue of our time , or one of the main ones . And I have a son . I want to know what to teach him . So , I decided to dive in head first , and try to live the Bible . The second reason I undertook this is because I 'm concerned about the rise of fundamentalism , religious fundamentalism , and people who say they take the Bible literally , which is , according to some polls , as high as 45 or 50 percent of America . So I decided , what if you really did take the Bible literally ? I decided to take it to its logical conclusion and take everything in the Bible literally , without picking and choosing . The first thing I did was I got a stack of bibles . I had Christian bibles . I had Jewish bibles . A friend of mine sent me something called a hip-hop bible , where the 23rd Psalm is rendered as , "" The Lord is all that , "" as opposed to what I knew it as , "" The Lord is my shepherd . "" Then I went down and I read several versions , and I wrote down every single law that I could find . And this was a very long list -- over 700 rules . And they range from the famous ones that I had heard of -- The Ten Commandments , love your neighbor , be fruitful and multiply . So I wanted to follow those . And actually I take my projects very seriously because I had twins during my year , so I definitely take my projects seriously . But I also wanted to follow the hundreds of arcane and obscure laws that are in the Bible . There is the law in Leviticus -- "" You can not shave the corners of your beard . "" I did n't know where my corners were , so I decided to let the whole thing grow , and this is what I looked like by the end . As you can imagine , I spent a lot of time at airport security . ( Laughter ) My wife would n ' t kiss me for the last two months . So , certainly the challenge was there . The Bible says you can not wear clothes made of mixed fibers , so I thought , "" Sounds strange , but I 'll try it . "" You only know if you try it . I got rid of all my poly-cotton t-shirts . The Bible says that if two men are in a fight , and the wife of one of those men grabs the testicles of the other man , then her hand shall be cut off . So , I wanted to follow that rule . ( Laughter ) That one I followed by default , by not getting in a fight with a man whose wife was standing nearby , looking like she had a strong grip . ( Laughter ) So -- oh , there 's another shot of my beard . I will say it was an amazing year because it really was life-changing , and incredibly challenging . And there were two types of laws that were particularly challenging . The first was avoiding the little sins that we all commit every day . You know , I could spend a year not killing , but spending a year not gossiping , not coveting , not lying -- you know , I live in New York , and I work as a journalist , so this was 75 , 80 percent of my day I had to do it . But it was really interesting , because I was able to make some progress because I could n ' t believe how much my behavior changed my thoughts . This was one of the huge lessons of the year , is that I almost pretended to be a better person , and I became a little bit of a better person . So I had always thought , you know , "" You change your mind , and you change your behavior , "" but it 's often the other way round . You change your behavior , and you change your mind . So , you know , if you want to become more compassionate , you visit sick people in the hospital , and you will become more compassionate . You donate money to a cause , and you become emotionally involved in that cause . So , it really was cognitive psychology -- you know , cognitive dissonance -- that I was experiencing . The Bible actually talks about cognitive psychology , very primitive cognitive psychology . In the Proverbs , it says that if you smile , you will become happier , which , as we know , is actually true . The second type of rule that was difficult to obey was the rules that will get you into a little trouble in 21st-century America . And perhaps the clearest example of this is stoning adulterers . ( Laughter ) But it 's a big part of the Bible , so I figured I had to address it . So , I was able to stone one adulterer . It happened -- I was in the park , and I was dressed in my biblical clothing -- sandals and a white robe -- you know , because again , the outer affects the inner . I wanted to see how dressing biblically affected my mind . And this man came up to me and he said , "" Why are you dressed like that ? "" And I explained my project , and he said , "" Well , I am an adulterer , are you going to stone me ? "" And I said , "" Well , that would be great ! "" ( Laughter ) And I took out a handful of stones from my pocket that I had been carrying around for weeks , hoping for just this interaction -- and , you know , they were pebbles -- but he grabbed them out of my hand . He was actually an elderly man , mid-seventies , just so you know . But he 's still an adulterer , and still quite angry . He grabbed them out of my hand and threw them at my face , and I felt that I could -- eye for an eye , I could retaliate , and throw one back at him . So that was my experience stoning , and it did allow me to talk about in a more serious way these big issues . How can the Bible be so barbaric in some places , and yet so incredibly wise in others ? How should we view the Bible ? Should we view it , you know , as original intent , like a sort of a Scalia version of the Bible ? How was the Bible written ? And actually , since this is a tech crowd , I talk in the book about how the Bible actually reminds me of Wikipedia because it has all of these authors and editors over hundreds of years . And it 's sort of evolved . It 's not a book that was written and came down from on high . So I thought I would end by telling you just a couple of the take-away , the bigger lessons that I learned from my year . The first is -- Thou shalt not take the Bible literally . This became very , very clear , early on . Because if you do , then you end up acting like a crazy person , and stoning adulterers , or -- here 's another example -- well , that 's another -- I did spend some time shepherding . ( Laughter ) It 's a very relaxing vocation . I recommend it . But this one is , the Bible says that you can not touch women during certain times of the month , and more than that , you can not sit on a seat where a menstruating woman has sat . And my wife thought this was very offensive , so she sat in every seat in our apartment , and I had to spend much of the year standing until I bought my own seat and carried it around . So , you know , I met with creationists . I went to the creationists' museum . And these are the ultimate literalists . And it was fascinating , because they were not stupid people at all . I would wager that their IQ is exactly the same as the average evolutionist . It 's just that their faith is so strong in this literal interpretation of the Bible that they distort all the data to fit their model . And they go through these amazing mental gymnastics to accomplish this . And I will say , though , the museum is gorgeous . They really did a fantastic job . If you 're ever in Kentucky , there 's -- you can see a movie of the flood , and they have sprinklers in the ceiling that will sprinkle on you during the flood scenes . So , whatever you think of creationism , and I think it 's crazy , they did a great job . ( Laughter ) Another lesson is that thou shalt give thanks . And this one was a big lesson because I was praying , giving these prayers of thanksgiving , which was odd for an agnostic . But I was saying thanks all the time , every day , and I started to change my perspective , and I started to realize the hundreds of little things that go right every day , that I did n't even notice , that I took for granted -- as opposed to focusing on the three or four that went wrong . So , this is actually a key to happiness for me , is to just remember when I came over here , the car did n't flip over , and I did n't trip coming up the stairs . It 's a remarkable thing . Third , that thou shall have reverence . This one was unexpected because I started the year as an agnostic , and by the end of the year I became what a friend of mine calls a reverent agnostic , which I love . And I 'm trying to start it as a movement . So if anyone wants to join , the basic idea is , whether or not there is a God , there 's something important and beautiful about the idea of sacredness , and that our rituals can be sacred . The Sabbath can be sacred . This was one of the great things about my year , doing the Sabbath , because I am a workaholic , so having this one day where you can not work -- it really , that changed my life . So , this idea of sacredness , whether or not there is a God . Thou shall not stereotype . This one happened because I spend a lot of time with various religious communities throughout America because I wanted it to be more than about my journey . I wanted it to be about religion in America . So I spent time with evangelical Christians , and Hasidic Jews and the Amish . I 'm very proud because I think I 'm the only person in America to out Bible-talk a Jehovah's Witness . ( Laughter ) After three and a half hours , he looked at his watch , he 's like , "" I gotta go . "" ( Laughter ) Oh , thank you very much . Thank you . Bless you , bless you . But it was interesting because I had some very preconceived notions about , for instance , evangelical Christianity , and I found that it 's such a wide and varied movement that it is difficult to make generalizations about it . There 's a group I met with called the Red Letter Christians , and they focus on the red words in the Bible , which are the ones that Jesus spoke -- that 's how they printed them in the old bibles . And their argument is that Jesus never talked about homosexuality . They have a pamphlet that says , "" Here 's what Jesus said about homosexuality , "" and you open it up , and there 's nothing in it . So , they say Jesus did talk a lot about helping the outcasts , helping poor people . So this was very inspiring to me . I recommend Jim Wallace and Tony Campolo . They 're very inspiring leaders , even though I disagree with much of what they say . Also , thou shalt not disregard the irrational . This one was very unexpected because , you know , I grew up with the scientific worldview , and I was shocked learning how much of my life is governed by irrational forces . And the thing is , if they 're not harmful , they 're not to be completely dismissed . Because I learned that -- I was thinking , I was doing all these rituals , these biblical rituals , separating my wool and linen , and I would ask these religious people "" Why would The Bible possibly tell us to do this ? Why would God care ? "" And they said , "" We do n't know , but it 's just rituals that give us meaning . "" And I would say , "" But that 's crazy . "" And they would say , "" Well , what about you ? You blow out candles on top of a birthday cake . If a guy from Mars came down and saw , here 's one guy blowing out the fire on top of a cake versus another guy not wearing clothes of mixed fabrics , would the Martians say , ' Well , that guy , he makes sense , but that guy 's crazy ? ' "" So no , I think that rituals are , by nature , irrational . So the key is to choose the right rituals , the ones that are not harmful -- but rituals by themselves are not to be dismissed . And finally I learned that thou shall pick and choose . And this one I learned because I tried to follow everything in the Bible . And I failed miserably . Because you ca n ' t . You have to pick and choose , and anyone who follows the Bible is going to be picking and choosing . The key is to pick and choose the right parts . There 's the phrase called cafeteria religion , and the fundamentalists will use it in a denigrating way , and they 'll say , "" Oh , it 's just cafeteria religion . You 're just picking and choosing . "" But my argument is , "" What 's wrong with cafeterias ? "" I 've had some great meals at cafeterias . I 've also had some meals that make me want to dry heave . So , it 's about choosing the parts of the Bible about compassion , about tolerance , about loving your neighbor , as opposed to the parts about homosexuality is a sin , or intolerance , or violence , which are very much in the Bible as well . So if we are to find any meaning in this book , then we have to really engage it , and wrestle with it . And I thought I 'd end with just a couple more . There 's me reading the Bible . That 's how I hailed taxi-cabs . ( Laughter ) Seriously , and it worked -- and yes , that was actually a rented sheep , so I had to return that in the morning , but it served well for a day . So , anyway , thank you so much for letting me speak . </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
67	"Part One , Chapter 11 Levin emptied his glass , and they were silent for a while . "" There 's one other thing I ought to tell you . Do you know Vronsky ? "" Stepan Arkadyevitch asked Levin . "" No , I do n't . Why do you ask ? "" "" Give us another bottle , "" Stepan Arkadyevitch directed the Tatar , who was filling up their glasses and fidgeting round them just when he was not wanted . "" Why you ought to know Vronsky is that he 's one of your rivals . "" "" Who 's Vronsky ? "" said Levin , and his face was suddenly transformed from the look of childlike ecstasy which Oblonsky had just been admiring to an angry and unpleasant expression . "" Vronsky is one of the sons of Count Kirill Ivanovitch Vronsky , and one of the finest specimens of the gilded youth of Petersburg . I made his acquaintance in Tver when I was there on official business , and he came there for the levy of recruits . Fearfully rich , handsome , great connections , an aide-de-camp , and with all that a very nice , good-natured fellow . But he 's more than simply a good-natured fellow , as I 've found out here – he 's a cultivated man , too , and very intelligent ; he 's a man who 'll make his mark . "" Levin scowled and was dumb . "" Well , he turned up here soon after you 'd gone , and as I can see , he 's over head and ears in love with Kitty , and you know that her mother ... "" "" Excuse me , but I know nothing , "" said Levin , frowning gloomily . And immediately he recollected his brother Nikolay and how hateful he was to have been able to forget him . "" You wait a bit , wait a bit , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch , smiling and touching his hand . "" I 've told you what I know , and I repeat that in this delicate and tender matter , as far as one can conjecture , I believe the chances are in your favor . "" Levin dropped back in his chair ; his face was pale . "" But I would advise you to settle the thing as soon as may be , "" pursued Oblonsky , filling up his glass . "" No , thanks , I ca n ' t drink any more , "" said Levin , pushing away his glass . "" I shall be drunk .... Come , tell me how are you getting on ? "" he went on , obviously anxious to change the conversation . "" One word more : in any case I advise you to settle the question soon . Tonight I do n't advise you to speak , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch . "" Go round tomorrow morning , make an offer in due form , and God bless you ... "" "" Oh , do you still think of coming to me for some shooting ? Come next spring , do , "" said Levin . Now his whole soul was full of remorse that he had begun this conversation with Stepan Arkadyevitch . A feeling such as his was profaned by talk of the rivalry of some Petersburg officer , of the suppositions and the counsels of Stepan Arkadyevitch . Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled . He knew what was passing in Levin's soul . "" I 'll come some day , "" he said . "" But women , my boy , they 're the pivot everything turns upon . Things are in a bad way with me , very bad . And it 's all through women . Tell me frankly now , "" he pursued , picking up a cigar and keeping one hand on his glass ; "" give me your advice . "" "" Why , what is it ? "" "" I 'll tell you . Suppose you 're married , you love your wife , but you 're fascinated by another woman ... "" "" Excuse me , but I 'm absolutely unable to comprehend how ... just as I ca n ' t comprehend how I could now , after my dinner , go straight to a baker's shop and steal a roll . "" Stepan Arkadyevitch's eyes sparkled more than usual . "" Why not ? A roll will sometimes smell so good one ca n ' t resist it . "" "" Himmlisch ist's , wenn ich bezwungen Meine irdische Begier ; Aber doch wenn's nich gelungen Hatt ' ich auch recht huebsch Plaisir ! "" As he said this , Stepan Arkadyevitch smiled subtly . Levin , too , could not help smiling . "" Yes , but joking apart , "" resumed Stepan Arkadyevitch , "" you must understand that the woman is a sweet , gentle loving creature , poor and lonely , and has sacrificed everything . Now , when the thing 's done , do n't you see , can one possibly cast her off ? Even supposing one parts from her , so as not to break up one's family life , still , can one help feeling for her , setting her on her feet , softening her lot ? "" "" Well , you must excuse me there . You know to me all women are divided into two classes ... at least no ... truer to say : there are women and there are ... I 've never seen exquisite fallen beings , and I never shall see them , but such creatures as that painted Frenchwoman at the counter with the ringlets are vermin to my mind , and all fallen women are the same . "" "" But the Magdalen ? "" "" Ah , drop that ! Christ would never have said those words if He had known how they would be abused . Of all the Gospel those words are the only ones remembered . However , I 'm not saying so much what I think , as what I feel . I have a loathing for fallen women . You 're afraid of spiders , and I of these vermin . Most likely you 've not made a study of spiders and do n't know their character ; and so it is with me . "" "" It 's very well for you to talk like that ; it 's very much like that gentleman in Dickens who used to fling all difficult questions over his right shoulder . But to deny the facts is no answer . What 's to be done – you tell me that , what 's to be done ? Your wife gets older , while you 're full of life . Before you 've time to look round , you feel that you ca n ' t love your wife with love , however much you may esteem her . And then all at once love turns up , and you 're done for , done for , "" Stepan Arkadyevitch said with weary despair . Levin half smiled . "" Yes , you 're done for , "" resumed Oblonsky . "" But what 's to be done ? "" "" Do n't steal rolls . "" Stepan Arkadyevitch laughed outright . "" Oh , moralist ! But you must understand , there are two women ; one insists only on her rights , and those rights are your love , which you ca n ' t give her ; and the other sacrifices everything for you and asks for nothing . What are you to do ? How are you to act ? There 's a fearful tragedy in it . "" "" If you care for my profession of faith as regards that , I 'll tell you that I do n't believe there was any tragedy about it . And this is why . To my mind , love ... both the sorts of love , which you remember Plato defines in his Banquet , served as the test of men . Some men only understand one sort , and some only the other . And those who only know the non-platonic love have no need to talk of tragedy . In such love there can be no sort of tragedy . ' I 'm much obliged for the gratification , my humble respects ' – that 's all the tragedy . And in platonic love there can be no tragedy , because in that love all is clear and pure , because ... "" At that instant Levin recollected his own sins and the inner conflict he had lived through . And he added unexpectedly : "" But perhaps you are right . Very likely ... I do n't know , I do n't know . "" "" It 's this , do n't you see , "" said Stepan Arkadyevitch , "" you 're very much all of a piece . That 's your strong point and your failing . You have a character that 's all of a piece , and you want the whole of life to be of a piece too – but that 's not how it is . You despise public official work because you want the reality to be invariably corresponding all the while with the aim – and that 's not how it is . You want a man's work , too , always to have a defined aim , and love and family life always to be undivided – and that 's not how it is . All the variety , all the charm , all the beauty of life is made up of light and shadow . "" Levin sighed and made no reply . He was thinking of his own affairs , and did not hear Oblonsky . And suddenly both of them felt that though they were friends , though they had been dining and drinking together , which should have drawn them closer , yet each was thinking only of his own affairs , and they had nothing to do with one another . Oblonsky had more than once experienced this extreme sense of aloofness , instead of intimacy , coming on after dinner , and he knew what to do in such cases . "" Bill ! "" he called , and he went into the next room where he promptly came across an aide-de-camp of his acquaintance and dropped into conversation with him about an actress and her protector . And at once in the conversation with the aide-de-camp Oblonsky had a sense of relaxation and relief after the conversation with Levin , which always put him to too great a mental and spiritual strain . When the Tatar appeared with a bill for twenty-six roubles and odd kopecks , besides a tip for himself , Levin , who would another time have been horrified , like any one from the country , at his share of fourteen roubles , did not notice it , paid , and set off homewards to dress and go to the Shtcherbatskys ' there to decide his fate ."	Prose/Lyrical
302	Home Governance SPPA committee roles and responsibilities SPPA committee roles and responsibilities This page details the responsibilities of the various SPPA posts . To find out who currently holds each post , please visit the committee page or click on a post title . President The president is responsible for : The overall policy of the SPPA Decisions about the type , location and frequency of SPPA events Liaison with SPPA reps to encourage wide participation in SPPA events Preparing an annual plan of projected SPPA activities Secretary The secretary is responsible for : Maintaining and moderating the SPPA mailing list Maintaining the SPPA website Ensuring the constitution is up to date Liaising with the SPC to ensure events of interest to SPPA members are published on the SPC events calendar Treasurer The treasurer is responsible for : Keeping accurate accounts of SPPA income and expenditure Liaising with the SPPA's financial supporters Providing an annual budget and report of the SPPA's income and expenditure Receiving and checking bank statements Liaising with bank to ensure address details and authorised signatories for the SPPA cheque book are up to date SPPA representative The SPPA aims to have representatives at each Scottish institution in which there are philosophy research students . These representatives are responsible for : Ensuring postgraduates at their university are aware of the SPPA and have signed up to the mailing list Forwarding key SPPA communications directly to postgraduates at their university Posting details of events at their univeristy that may be of interest to SPPA members to the SPPA mailing list Encouraging postgraduates at their university to submit papers for SPPA seminar days and conferences , and to attend these events Liaising with SPPA committee members and other SPPA reps to plan SPPA activities and policy Suggesting possible activities and additions to the website to the SPPA committee Helping organize SPPA seminar days and conferences when held at their institution and obtaining departmental support for these events	Legal
398	"HSBC may quit UK - papers 6th October From : IFA Online , 6 / 10 / 2006 9 : 44 : 00 AM It says HSBC moved its headquarters and tax domicile to the UK from Hong Kong in 1993 as a condition of its takeover of the troubled Midland bank . It pays more than £ 370m into the chancellor's coffers each year . But the international nature of its business and the jet-setting tendencies of its top executives have regularly provoked speculation about the bank's long-term plans . The bank makes no secret of the fact that it reviews the location of its head office every three years but has so far concluded it should stay in the UK , illustrated by the construction of a new tower in London's docklands . The next review is expected in six months' time and will be closely watched by international companies . In a speech last week , Chris Spooner , head of financial planning and tax at HSBC , suggested that the issue of the bank's tax domicile was back on the agenda . "" The UK used to be a good place to be for purely tax reasons , "" he said . "" I am not sure if that is the case any more . "" HSBC pays a large amount of tax and we are the ones who decide who gets it . We take the competitive environment seriously and there are others like us . "" The comments first appeared in Accountancy Age magazine after a speech given by Spooner at a Chartered Institute of Taxation conference in London . HSBC is likely to be one of the 10 biggest tax payers in the country and its tax bill is the main criterion when it decides where to be based , along with other issues such as regulation , transport and quality of life . HSBC's senior executives have not tried to hide their irritation about the regulatory environment , particularly following changes brought in after the Cruickshank review of the industry . At the bank's annual general meeting in 2002 , the then chairman Sir John Bond told shareholders of the bank's concerns that new regulations were not in their interests or those of its customers . But speculation about HSBC's intentions has escalated after last month's ruling from the European Court of Justice that seemed to clear the way for companies wanting to take advantage of lower tax rates in some EU states . In a case against Cadbury Schweppes , the European court concluded it was legal for companies to exploit tax differentials as long as the employees were carrying out real work . A number of Lloyd's of London insurance brokers have moved their domiciles recently . The European Central Bank has raised interest rates a quarter point to 3.25 % and signalled a further rise in December , despite fears that monetary overkill could smother Europe's fragile expansion and cause a sharp slide in global asset prices , reports the Telegraph . It says Jean-Claude Trichet , the ECB's president , warned of "" serious risks "" to price stability even though inflation dropped sharply to 1.8 % last month from highs of 2.5 % in June . "" Further withdrawal of monetary policy is warranted . Money and credit growth are strong and liquidity in the euro area is ample by all plausible measures , "" he said . The ECB is alarmed by property booms in Spain , Ireland and parts of France , fearing credit growth running at 11.9 % is stoking up inflationary pressures . The latest wage deals in German industry have seen rises of 3.8 % , the highest in a decade . "" We have a compass , we have a needle in our compass . It is price stability , "" Trichet said . The rate rise comes despite an increase in euro-zone unemployment to 7.9 % in August , the first move up in over four years . Joachim Fels , Morgan Stanley's credit chief , said there was a mounting risk that the ECB would over-tighten , with serious spill-over effects for the rest of the world . "" The ECB's easy stance has supported the euro economy , asset markets , and the global liquidity cycle for no less than five years , "" he said . "" The impending return to monetary neutrality in Europe may well turn out to have more dire consequences for the economy and global asset markets than generally assumed , "" he said . Fels said the shock could be similar to the effect of America's shift to "" restrictive "" rates this spring , which set off a worldwide slide in asset prices . "" A similar shiver may well go through the system once it becomes clear that the next provider of excess liquidity - the ECB - has turned off the tap , "" he said . Trichet hinted yesterday that the ECB was having to grapple with incipient stagflation "" , warning that inflation would remain stubbornly above the ECB's ceiling of 2 % well into 2007 despite "" downside "" risks to growth . Bernard Connolly , global strategist for AIG , said the ECB was in effect setting interest rate policy to head off incipient inflation in Germany , obeying an implicit contract built into Europe's monetary union that German price stability must never be sacrificed . The result is a long-term risk of "" recession , deflation and default "" for the Club Med bloc of Spain , Italy , Portugal and Greece . There are increasingly ominous signs of trouble in France as well . The information contained in the public areas of this website is targeted at UK individuals and businesses . Assureweb Ltd is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority . Assureweb Ltd is entered on the FSA register ( www . f sa . g ov . u k ) under reference 217364 . VAT No GB 795 509874 . Privacy Policy | Site Terms & Conditions | Use of Cookies"	News
64	"THE PURLOINED LETTER . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Nil sapientiae odiosius acumine nimio . Seneca . At Paris , just after dark one gusty evening in the autumn of 18 – , I was enjoying the twofold luxury of meditation and a meerschaum , in company with my friend C. Auguste Dupin , in his little back library , or book-closet , au troisiême , No. 33 , Rue Dunôt , Faubourg St. Germain . For one hour at least we had maintained a profound silence ; while each , to any casual observer , might have seemed intently and exclusively occupied with the curling eddies of smoke that oppressed the atmosphere of the chamber . For myself , however , I was mentally discussing certain topics which had formed matter for conversation between us at an earlier period of the evening ; I mean the affair of the Rue Morgue , and the mystery attending the murder of Marie Rogêt . I looked upon it , therefore , as something of a coincidence , when the door of our apartment was thrown open and admitted our old acquaintance , Monsieur G – – , the Prefect of the Parisian police . We gave him a hearty welcome ; for there was nearly half as much of the entertaining as of the contemptible about the man , and we had not seen him for several years . We had been sitting in the dark , and Dupin now arose for the purpose of lighting a lamp , but sat down again , without doing so , upon G. ' s saying that he had called to consult us , or rather to ask the opinion of my friend , about some official business which had occasioned a great deal of trouble . "" If it is any point requiring reflection , "" observed Dupin , as he forebore to enkindle the wick , "" we shall examine it to better purpose in the dark . "" "" That is another of your odd notions , "" said the Prefect , who had a fashion of calling every thing "" odd "" that was beyond his comprehension , and thus lived amid an absolute legion of "" oddities . "" "" Very true , "" said Dupin , as he supplied his visiter with a pipe , and rolled towards him a comfortable chair . "" And what is the difficulty now ? "" I asked . "" Nothing more in the assassination way , I hope ? "" "" Oh no ; nothing of that nature . The fact is , the business is very simple indeed , and I make no doubt that we can manage it sufficiently well ourselves ; but then I thought Dupin would like to hear the details of it , because it is so excessively odd . "" "" Simple and odd , "" said Dupin . "" Why , yes ; and not exactly that , either . The fact is , we have all been a good deal puzzled because the affair is so simple , and yet baffles us altogether . "" "" Perhaps it is the very simplicity of the thing which puts you at fault , "" said my friend . "" What nonsense you do talk ! "" replied the Prefect , laughing heartily . "" Perhaps the mystery is a little too plain , "" said Dupin . "" Oh , good heavens ! who ever heard of such an idea ? "" "" A little too self evident . "" "" Ha ! ha ! ha ! – ha ! ha ! ha ! – ho ! ho ! ho ! "" roared our visiter , profoundly amused , "" oh , Dupin , you will be the death of me yet ! "" "" And what , after all , is the matter on hand ? "" I asked . "" Why , I will tell you , "" replied the Prefect , as he gave a long , steady and contemplative puff , and settled himself in his chair . "" I will tell you in a few words ; but , before I begin , let me caution you that this is an affair demanding the greatest secrecy , and that I should most probably lose the position I now hold , were it known that I confided it to any one . "" "" Proceed , "" said I. "" Or not , "" said Dupin . "" Well , then ; I have received personal information , from a very high quarter , that a certain document of the last importance , has been purloined from the royal apartments . The individual who purloined it is known ; this beyond a doubt ; he was seen to take it . It is known , also , that it still remains in his possession . "" "" How is this known ? "" asked Dupin . "" It is clearly inferred , "" replied the Prefect , "" from the nature of the document , and from the non-appearance of certain results which would at once arise from its passing out of the robber's possession ; – that is to say , from his employing it as he must design in the end to employ it . "" "" Be a little more explicit , "" I said . "" Well , I may venture so far as to say that the paper gives its holder a certain power in a certain quarter where such power is immensely valuable . "" The Prefect was fond of the cant of diplomacy . "" Still I do not quite understand , "" said Dupin . "" No ? Well ; the disclosure of the document to a third person , who shall be nameless , would bring in question the honor of a personage of most exalted station ; and this fact gives the holder of the document an ascendancy over the illustrious personage whose honor and peace are so jeopardized . "" "" But this ascendancy , "" I interposed , "" would depend upon the robber's knowledge of the loser's knowledge of the robber . Who would dare – "" "" The thief , "" said G. , "" is the Minister D – – , who dares all things , those unbecoming as well as those becoming a man . The method of the theft was not less ingenious than bold . The document in question – a letter , to be frank – had been received by the personage robbed while alone in the royal boudoir . During its perusal she was suddenly interrupted by the entrance of the other exalted personage from whom especially it was her wish to conceal it . After a hurried and vain endeavor to thrust it in a drawer , she was forced to place it , open as it was , upon a table . The address , however , was uppermost , and , the contents thus unexposed , the letter escaped notice . At this juncture enters the Minister D – – . His lynx eye immediately perceives the paper , recognises the handwriting of the address , observes the confusion of the personage addressed , and fathoms her secret . After some business transactions , hurried through in his ordinary manner , he produces a letter somewhat similar to the one in question , opens it , pretends to read it , and then places it in close juxtaposition to the other . Again he converses , for some fifteen minutes , upon the public affairs . At length , in taking leave , he takes also from the table the letter to which he had no claim . Its rightful owner saw , but , of course , dared not call attention to the act , in the presence of the third personage who stood at her elbow . The minister decamped ; leaving his own letter – one of no importance – upon the table . "" "" Here , then , "" said Dupin to me , "" you have precisely what you demand to make the ascendancy complete – the robber's knowledge of the loser's knowledge of the robber . "" "" Yes , "" replied the Prefect ; "" and the power thus attained has , for some months past , been wielded , for political purposes , to a very dangerous extent . The personage robbed is more thoroughly convinced , every day , of the necessity of reclaiming her letter . But this , of course , can not be done openly . In fine , driven to despair , she has committed the matter to me . "" "" Than whom , "" said Dupin , amid a perfect whirlwind of smoke , "" no more sagacious agent could , I suppose , be desired , or even imagined . "" "" You flatter me , "" replied the Prefect ; "" but it is possible that some such opinion may have been entertained . "" "" It is clear , "" said I , "" as you observe , that the letter is still in possession of the minister ; since it is this possession , and not any employment of the letter , which bestows the power . With the employment the power departs . "" "" True , "" said G. ; "" and upon this conviction I proceeded . My first care was to make thorough search of the minister's hotel ; and here my chief embarrassment lay in the necessity of searching without his knowledge . Beyond all things , I have been warned of the danger which would result from giving him reason to suspect our design . "" "" But , "" said I , "" you are quite au fait in these investigations . The Parisian police have done this thing often before . "" "" O yes ; and for this reason I did not despair . The habits of the minister gave me , too , a great advantage . He is frequently absent from home all night . His servants are by no means numerous . They sleep at a distance from their master's apartment , and , being chiefly Neapolitans , are readily made drunk . I have keys , as you know , with which I can open any chamber or cabinet in Paris . For three months a night has not passed , during the greater part of which I have not been engaged , personally , in ransacking the D – – Hotel . My honor is interested , and , to mention a great secret , the reward is enormous . So I did not abandon the search until I had become fully satisfied that the thief is a more astute man than myself . I fancy that I have investigated every nook and corner of the premises in which it is possible that the paper can be concealed . "" "" But is it not possible , "" I suggested , "" that although the letter may be in possession of the minister , as it unquestionably is , he may have concealed it elsewhere than upon his own premises ? "" "" This is barely possible , "" said Dupin . "" The present peculiar condition of affairs at court , and especially of those intrigues in which D – – is known to be involved , would render the instant availability of the document – its susceptibility of being produced at a moment's notice – a point of nearly equal importance with its possession . "" "" Its susceptibility of being produced ? "" said I. "" That is to say , of being destroyed , "" said Dupin . "" True , "" I observed ; "" the paper is clearly then upon the premises . As for its being upon the person of the minister , we may consider that as out of the question . "" "" Entirely , "" said the Prefect . "" He has been twice waylaid , as if by footpads , and his person rigorously searched under my own inspection . "" "" You might have spared yourself this trouble , "" said Dupin . "" D – – , I presume , is not altogether a fool , and , if not , must have anticipated these waylayings , as a matter of course . "" "" Not altogether a fool , "" said G. , "" but then he 's a poet , which I take to be only one remove from a fool . "" "" True , "" said Dupin , after a long and thoughtful whiff from his meerschaum , "" although I have been guilty of certain doggrel myself . "" "" Suppose you detail , "" said I , "" the particulars of your search . "" "" Why the fact is , we took our time , and we searched every where . I have had long experience in these affairs . I took the entire building , room by room ; devoting the nights of a whole week to each . We examined , first , the furniture of each apartment . We opened every possible drawer ; and I presume you know that , to a properly trained police agent , such a thing as a secret drawer is impossible . Any man is a dolt who permits a ' secret ' drawer to escape him in a search of this kind . The thing is so plain . There is a certain amount of bulk – of space – to be accounted for in every cabinet . Then we have accurate rules . The fiftieth part of a line could not escape us . After the cabinets we took the chairs . The cushions we probed with the fine long needles you have seen me employ . From the tables we removed the tops . "" "" Why so ? "" "" Sometimes the top of a table , or other similarly arranged piece of furniture , is removed by the person wishing to conceal an article ; then the leg is excavated , the article deposited within the cavity , and the top replaced . The bottoms and tops of bedposts are employed in the same way . "" "" But could not the cavity be detected by sounding ? "" I asked . "" By no means , if , when the article is deposited , a sufficient wadding of cotton be placed around it . Besides , in our case , we were obliged to proceed without noise . "" "" But you could not have removed – you could not have taken to pieces all articles of furniture in which it would have been possible to make a deposit in the manner you mention . A letter may be compressed into a thin spiral roll , not differing much in shape or bulk from a large knitting needle , and in this form it might be inserted into the rung of a chair , for example . You did not take to pieces all the chairs ? "" "" Certainly not ; but we did better – we examined the rungs of every chair in the hotel , and , indeed the jointings of every description of furniture , by the aid of a most powerful microscope . Had there been any traces of recent disturbance we should not have failed to detect it instantly . A single grain of gimlet dust , for example , would have been as obvious as an apple . Any disorder in the glueing – any unusual gaping in the joints – would have sufficed to insure detection . "" "" I presume you looked to the mirrors , between the boards and the plates , and you probed the beds and the bed clothes , as well as the curtains and carpets . "" "" That of course ; and when we had absolutely completed every particle of the furniture in this way , then we examined the house itself . We divided its entire surface into compartments , which we numbered , so that none might be missed ; then we scrutinized each individual square inch throughout the premises , including the two houses immediately adjoining , with the microscope , as before . "" "" The two houses adjoining ! "" I exclaimed ; "" you must have had a great deal of trouble . "" "" We had ; but the reward offered is prodigious ! "" "" You include the grounds about the houses ? "" "" All the grounds are paved with brick . They gave us comparatively little trouble . We examined the moss between the bricks , and found it undisturbed . "" "" You looked among D –– ' s papers , of course , and into the books of the library ? "" "" Certainly ; we opened every package and parcel ; we not only opened every book , but we turned over every leaf in each volume , not contenting ourselves with a mere shake , according to the fashion of some of our police officers . We also measured the thickness of every book cover , with the most accurate admeasurement , and applied to each the most jealous scrutiny of the microscope . Had any of the bindings been recently meddled with , it would have been utterly impossible that the fact should have escaped observation . Some five or six volumes , just from the hands of the binder , we carefully probed , longitudinally , with the needles . "" "" You explored the floors beneath the carpets ? "" "" Beyond doubt . We removed every carpet , and examined the boards with the microscope . "" "" And the paper on the walls ? "" "" Yes . "" "" You looked into the cellars ? "" "" We did . "" "" Then , "" I said , "" you have been making a miscalculation , and the letter is not upon the premises , as you suppose . "" "" I fear you are right there , "" said the Prefect . "" And now , Dupin , what would you advise me to do ? "" "" To make a thorough re-search of the premises . "" "" That is absolutely needless , "" replied G – – . "" I am not more sure that I breathe than I am that the letter is not at the Hotel . "" "" I have no better advice to give you , "" said Dupin . "" You have , of course , an accurate description of the letter ? "" "" Oh yes ! "" – And here the Prefect , producing a memorandum book proceeded to read aloud a minute account of the internal , and especially of the external appearance of the missing document . Soon after finishing the perusal of this description , he took his departure , more entirely depressed in spirits than I had ever known the good gentleman before . In about a month afterwards he paid us another visit , and found us occupied very nearly as before . He took a pipe and a chair and entered into some ordinary conversation . At length I said , – "" Well , but G – – , what of the purloined letter ? I presume you have at last made up your mind that there is no such thing as overreaching the Minister ? "" "" Confound him , say I – yes ; I made the re-examination , however , as Dupin suggested-but it was all labor lost , as I knew it would be . "" "" How much was the reward offered , did you say ? "" asked Dupin . "" Why , a very great deal – a very liberal reward – I do n't like to say how much , precisely ; but one thing I will say , that I would n ' t mind giving my individual check for fifty thousand francs to any one who could obtain me that letter . The fact is , it is becoming of more and more importance every day ; and the reward has been lately doubled . If it were trebled , however , I could do no more than I have done . "" "" Why , yes , "" said Dupin , drawlingly , between the whiffs of his meerschaum , "" I really-think , G – , you have not exerted yourself – to the utmost in this matter . You might – do a little more , I think , eh ? "" "" How ? – in what way ? ' "" Why – puff , puff – you might – puff , puff – employ counsel in the matter , eh ? – puff , puff , puff . Do you remember the story they tell of Abernethy ? "" "" No ; hang Abernethy ! "" "" To be sure ! hang him and welcome . But , once upon a time , a certain rich miser conceived the design of spunging upon this Abernethy for a medical opinion . Getting up , for this purpose , an ordinary conversation in a private company , he insinuated his case to the physician , as that of an imaginary individual . "" ' We will suppose , ' said the miser , ' that his symptoms are such and such ; now , doctor , what would you have directed him to take ? ' "" ' Take ! ' said Abernethy , ' why , take advice , to be sure . ' "" "" But , "" said the Prefect , a little discomposed , "" I am perfectly willing to take advice , and to pay for it . I would really give fifty thousand francs to any one who would aid me in the matter . "" "" In that case , "" replied Dupin , opening a drawer , and producing a check book , "" you may as well fill me up a check for the amount mentioned . When you have signed it , I will hand you the letter . "" I was astounded . The Prefect appeared absolutely thunder stricken . For some minutes he remained speechless and motionless , looking incredulously at my friend with open mouth , and eyes that seemed starting from their sockets ; then , apparently recovering himself in some measure , he seized a pen , and after several pauses and vacant stares , finally filled up and signed a check for fifty thousand francs , and handed it across the table to Dupin . The latter examined it carefully and deposited it in his pocket book ; then , unlocking an escritoire , took thence a letter and gave it to the Prefect . This functionary grasped it in a perfect agony of joy , opened it with a trembling hand , cast a rapid glance at its contents , and then , scrambling and struggling to the door , rushed at length unceremoniously from the room and from the house , without having uttered a syllable since Dupin had requested him to fill up the check . When he had gone , my friend entered into some explanations . "" The Parisian police , "" he said , "" are exceedingly able in their way . They are persevering , ingenious , cunning , and thoroughly versed in the knowledge which their duties seem chiefly to demand . Thus , when G – – detailed to us his mode of searching the premises at the Hotel D – – , I felt entire confidence in his having made a satisfactory investigation – so far as his labors extended . "" "" So far as his labors extended ? "" said I. "" Yes , "" said Dupin . "" The measures adopted were not only the best of their kind , but carried out to absolute perfection . Had the letter been deposited within the range of their search , these fellows would , beyond a question , have found it . "" I merely laughed – but he seemed quite serious in all that he said . "" The measures , then , "" he continued , "" were good in their kind , and well executed ; their defect lay in their being inapplicable to the case , and to the man . A certain set of highly ingenious resources are , with the Prefect , a sort of Procrustean bed , to which he forcibly adapts his designs . But he perpetually errs by being too deep or too shallow , for the matter in hand ; and many a schoolboy is a better reasoner than he . I knew one about eight years of age , whose success at guessing in the game of ' even and odd ' attracted universal admiration . This game is simple , and is played with marbles . One player holds in his hand a number of these toys , and demands of another whether that number is even or odd . If the guess is right , the guesser wins one ; if wrong , he loses one . The boy to whom I allude won all the marbles of the school . Of course he had some principle of guessing ; and this lay in mere observation and admeasurement of the astuteness of his opponents . For example , an arrant simpleton is his opponent , and , holding up his closed hand , asks , ' are they even or odd ? ' Our schoolboy replies , ' odd , ' and loses ; but upon the second trial he wins , for he then says to himself , ' the simpleton had them even upon the first trial , and his amount of cunning is just sufficient to make him have them odd upon the second ; I will therefore guess odd ; ' – he guesses odd , and wins . Now , with a simpleton a degree above the first , he would have reasoned thus : ' This fellow finds that in the first instance I guessed odd , and , in the second , he will propose to himself , upon the first impulse , a simple variation from even to odd , as did the first simpleton ; but then a second thought will suggest that this is too simple a variation , and finally he will decide upon putting it even as before . I will therefore guess even ; ' – he guesses even , and wins . Now this mode of reasoning in the schoolboy , whom his fellows termed ' lucky , ' – what , in its last analysis , is it ? "" "" It is merely , "" I said , "" an identification of the reasoner's intellect with that of his opponent . "" "" It is , "" said Dupin ; "" and , upon inquiring , of the boy by what means he effected the thorough identification in which his success consisted , I received answer as follows : ' When I wish to find out how wise , or how stupid , or how good , or how wicked is any one , or what are his thoughts at the moment , I fashion the expression of my face , as accurately as possible , in accordance with the expression of his , and then wait to see what thoughts or sentiments arise in my mind or heart , as if to match or correspond with the expression . ' This response of the schoolboy lies at the bottom of all the spurious profundity which has been attributed to Rochefoucault , to La Bougive , to Machiavelli , and to Campanella . "" "" And the identification , "" I said , "" of the reasoner's intellect with that of his opponent , depends , if I understand you aright , upon the accuracy with which the opponent's intellect is admeasured . "" "" For its practical value it depends upon this , "" replied Dupin ; "" and the Prefect and his cohort fail so frequently , first , by default of this identification , and , secondly , by ill-admeasurement , or rather through non-admeasurement , of the intellect with which they are engaged . They consider only their own ideas of ingenuity ; and , in searching for anything hidden , advert only to the modes in which they would have hidden it . They are right in this much – that their own ingenuity is a faithful representative of that of the mass ; but when the cunning of the individual felon is diverse in character from their own , the felon foils them , of course . This always happens when it is above their own , and very usually when it is below . They have no variation of principle in their investigations ; at best , when urged by some unusual emergency – by some extraordinary reward – they extend or exaggerate their old modes of practice , without touching their principles . What , for example , in this case of D – , has been done to vary the principle of action ? What is all this boring , and probing , and sounding , and scrutinizing with the microscope and dividing the surface of the building into registered square inches – what is it all but an exaggeration of the application of the one principle or set of principles of search , which are based upon the one set of notions regarding human ingenuity , to which the Prefect , in the long routine of his duty , has been accustomed ? Do you not see he has taken it for granted that all men proceed to conceal a letter , – not exactly in a gimlet hole bored in a chair leg – but , at least , in some out-of-the-way hole or corner suggested by the same tenor of thought which would urge a man to secrete a letter in a gimlet hole bored in a chair leg ? And do you not see also , that such recherchés nooks for concealment are adapted only for ordinary occasions , and would be adopted only by ordinary intellects ; for , in all cases of concealment , a disposal of the article concealed – a disposal of it in this recherché manner , – is , in the very first instance , presumable and presumed ; and thus its discovery depends , not at all upon the acumen , but altogether upon the mere care , patience , and determination of the seekers ; and where the case is of importance – or , what amounts to the same thing in the policial eyes , when the reward is of magnitude , – the qualities in question have never been known to fail . You will now understand what I meant in suggesting that , had the purloined letter been hidden any where within the limits of the Prefect's examination – in other words , had the principle of its concealment been comprehended within the principles of the Prefect – its discovery would have been a matter altogether beyond question . This functionary , however , has been thoroughly mystified ; and the remote source of his defeat lies in the supposition that the Minister is a fool , because he has acquired renown as a poet . All fools are poets ; this the Prefect feels ; and he is merely guilty of a non distributio medii in thence inferring that all poets are fools . "" "" But is this really the poet ? "" I asked . "" There are two brothers , I know ; and both have attained reputation in letters . The Minister I believe has written learnedly on the Differential Calculus . He is a mathematician , and no poet . "" "" You are mistaken ; I know him well ; he is both . As poet and mathematician , he would reason well ; as mere mathematician , he could not have reasoned at all , and thus would have been at the mercy of the Prefect . "" "" You surprise me , "" I said , "" by these opinions , which have been contradicted by the voice of the world . You do not mean to set at naught the well-digested idea of centuries . The mathematical reason has long been regarded as the reason par excellence . "" "" ' Il y a à parièr , ' "" replied Dupin , quoting from Chamfort , "" ' que toute idée publique , toute convention reçue est une sottise , car elle a convenue au plus grand nombre . ' The mathematicians , I grant you , have done their best to promulgate the popular error to which you allude , and which is none the less an error for its promulgation as truth . With an art worthy a better cause , for example , they have insinuated the term ' analysis ' into application to algebra . The French are the originators of this particular deception ; but if a term is of any importance – if words derive any value from applicability – then ' analysis ' conveys ' algebra ' about as much as , in Latin , ' ambitus ' implies ' ambition , ' ' religio ' ' religion , ' or ' homines honesti , ' a set of honorable men . "" "" You have a quarrel on hand , I see , "" said I , "" with some of the algebraists of Paris ; but proceed . "" "" I dispute the availability , and thus the value , of that reason which is cultivated in any especial form other than the abstractly logical . I dispute , in particular , the reason educed by mathematical study . The mathematics are the science of form and quantity ; mathematical reasoning is merely logic applied to observation upon form and quantity . The great error lies in supposing that even the truths of what is called pure algebra , are abstract or general truths . And this error is so egregious that I am confounded at the universality with which it has been received . Mathematical axioms are not axioms of general truth . What is true of relation – of form and quantity – is often grossly false in regard to morals , for example . In this latter science it is very usually untrue that the aggregated parts are equal to the whole . In chemistry also the axiom fails . In the consideration of motive it fails ; for two motives , each of a given value , have not , necessarily , a value when united , equal to the sum of their values apart . There are numerous other mathematical truths which are only truths within the limits of relation . But the mathematician argues , from his finite truths , through habit , as if they were of an absolutely general applicability – as the world indeed imagines them to be . Bryant , in his very learned ' Mythology , ' mentions an analogous source of error , when he says that ' although the Pagan fables are not believed , yet we forget ourselves continually , and make inferences from them as existing realities . ' With the algebraists , however , who are Pagans themselves , the ' Pagan fables ' are believed , and the inferences are made , not so much through lapse of memory , as through an unaccountable addling of the brains . In short , I never yet encountered the mere mathematician who could be trusted out of equal roots , or one who did not clandestinely hold it as a point of his faith that x2 + px was absolutely and unconditionally equal to q . Say to one of these gentlemen , by way of experiment , if you please , that you believe occasions may occur where x2 + px is not altogether equal to q , and , having made him understand what you mean , get out of his reach as speedily as convenient , for , beyond doubt , he will endeavor to knock you down . "" I mean to say , "" continued Dupin , while I merely laughed at his last observations , "" that if the Minister had been no more than a mathematician , the Prefect would have been under no necessity of giving me this check . I know him , however , as both mathematician and poet , and my measures were adapted to his capacity , with reference to the circumstances by which he was surrounded . I knew him as a courtier , too , and as a bold intriguant . Such a man , I considered , could not fail to be aware of the ordinary policial modes of action . He could not have failed to anticipate – and events have proved that he did not fail to anticipate – the waylayings to which he was subjected . He must have foreseen , I reflected , the secret investigations of his premises . His frequent absences from home at night , which were hailed by the Prefect as certain aids to his success , I regarded only as ruses , to afford opportunity for thorough search to the police , and thus the sooner to impress them with the conviction to which G – – , in fact , did finally arrive – the conviction that the letter was not upon the premises . I felt , also , that the whole train of thought , which I was at some pains in detailing to you just now , concerning the invariable principle of policial action in searches for articles concealed – I felt that this whole train of thought would necessarily pass through the mind of the Minister . It would imperatively lead him to despise all the ordinary nooks of concealment . He could not , I reflected , be so weak as not to see that the most intricate and remote recess of his hotel would be as open as his commonest closets to the eyes , to the probes , to the gimlets , and to the microscopes of the Prefect . I saw , in fine , that he would be driven , as a matter of course , to simplicity , if not deliberately induced to it as a matter of choice . You will remember , perhaps , how desperately the Prefect laughed when I suggested , upon our first interview , that it was just possible this mystery troubled him so much on account of its being so very self-evident . "" "" Yes , "" said I , "" I remember his merriment well . I really thought he would have fallen into convulsions . "" "" The material world , "" continued Dupin , "" abounds with very strict analogies to the immaterial ; and thus some color of truth has been given to the rhetorical dogma , that metaphor , or simile , may be made to strengthen an argument , as well as to embellish a description . The principle of the vis inertiæ , for example , seems to be identical in physics and metaphysics . It is not more true in the former , that a large body is with more difficulty set in motion than a smaller one , and that its subsequent momentum is commensurate with this difficulty , than it is , in the latter , that intellects of the vaster capacity , while more forcible , more constant , and more eventful in their movements than those of inferior grade , are yet the less readily moved , and more embarrassed and full of hesitation in the first few steps of their progress . Again : have you ever noticed which of the street signs , over the shop-doors , are the most attractive of attention ? "" "" I have never given the matter a thought , "" I said . "" There is a game of puzzles , "" he resumed , "" which is played upon a map . One party playing requires another to find a given word – the name of town , river , state or empire – any word , in short , upon the motley and perplexed surface of the chart . A novice in the game generally seeks to embarrass his opponents by giving them the most minutely lettered names ; but the adept selects such words as stretch , in large characters , from one end of the chart to the other . These , like the over largely lettered signs and placards of the street , escape observation by dint of being excessively obvious ; and here the physical oversight is precisely analogous with the moral inapprehension by which the intellect suffers to pass unnoticed those considerations which are too obtrusively and too palpably self evident . But this is a point , it appears , somewhat above or beneath the understanding of the Prefect . He never once thought it probable , or possible , that the Minister had deposited the letter immediately beneath the nose of the whole world , by way of best preventing any portion of that world from perceiving it . "" But the more I reflected upon the daring , dashing , and discriminating ingenuity of D – – ; upon the fact that the document must always have been at hand , if he intended to use it to good purpose ; and upon the decisive evidence , obtained by the Prefect , that it was not hidden within the limits of that dignitary's ordinary search – the more satisfied I became that , to conceal this letter , the Minister had resorted to the comprehensive and sagacious expedient of not attempting to conceal it at all . "" Full of these ideas , I prepared myself with a pair of green spectacles , and called one fine morning , quite by accident , at the Ministerial hotel . I found D – – at home , yawning , lounging , and dawdling , as usual , and pretending to be in the last extremity of ennui . He is , perhaps , the most really energetic human being now alive – but that is only when nobody sees him . "" To be even with him , I complained of my weak eyes , and lamented the necessity of the spectacles , under cover of which I cautiously and thoroughly surveyed the whole apartment , while seemingly intent only upon the conversation of my host . "" I paid especial attention to a large writing-table near which he sat , and upon which lay confusedly , some miscellaneous letters and other papers , with one or two musical instruments and a few books . Here , however , after a long and very deliberate scrutiny , I saw nothing to excite particular suspicion . "" At length my eyes , in going the circuit of the room , fell upon a trumpery fillagree card-rack of pasteboard , that hung dangling by a dirty blue ribbon , from a little brass knob just beneath the middle of the mantel-piece . In this rack , which had three or four compartments , were five or six visiting cards and a solitary letter . This last was much soiled and crumpled . It was torn nearly in two , across the middle – as if a design , in the first instance , to tear it entirely up as worthless , had been altered , or stayed , in the second . It had a large black seal , bearing the D – – cipher very conspicuously , and was addressed , in a diminutive female hand , to D – – , the minister , himself . It was thrust carelessly , and even , as it seemed , contemptuously , into one of the uppermost divisions of the rack . "" No sooner had I glanced at this letter , than I concluded it to be that of which I was in search . To be sure , it was , to all appearance , radically different from the one of which the Prefect had read us so minute a description . Here the seal was large and black , with the D – – cipher ; there it was small and red , with the ducal arms of the S – – family . Here , the address , to the Minister , diminutive and feminine ; there the superscription , to a certain royal personage , was markedly bold and decided ; the size alone formed a point of correspondence . But , then , the radicalness of these differences , which was excessive ; the dirt ; the soiled and torn condition of the paper , so inconsistent with the true methodical habits of D – – , and so suggestive of a design to delude the beholder into an idea of the worthlessness of the document ; these things , together with the hyper-obtrusive situation of this document , full in the view of every visiter , and thus exactly in accordance with the conclusions to which I had previously arrived ; these things , I say , were strongly corroborative of suspicion , in one who came with the intention to suspect . "" I protracted my visit as long as possible , and , while I maintained a most animated discussion with the Minister upon a topic which I knew well had never failed to interest and excite him , I kept my attention really riveted upon the letter . In this examination , I committed to memory its external appearance and arrangement in the rack ; and also fell , at length , upon a discovery which set at rest whatever trivial doubt I might have entertained . In scrutinizing the edges of the paper , I observed them to be more chafed than seemed necessary . They presented the broken appearance which is manifested when a stiff paper , having been once folded and pressed with a folder , is refolded in a reversed direction , in the same creases or edges which had formed the original fold . This discovery was sufficient . It was clear to me that the letter had been turned , as a glove , inside out , re-directed , and re-sealed . I bade the Minister good morning , and took my departure at once , leaving a gold snuff box upon the table . "" The next morning I called for the snuff-box , when we resumed , quite eagerly , the conversation of the preceding day . While thus engaged , however , a loud report , as if of a pistol , was heard immediately beneath the windows of the hotel , and was succeeded by a series of fearful screams , and the shoutings of a terrified mob . D – – rushed to a casement , threw it open , and looked out . In the meantime , I stepped to the card-rack took the letter , put it in my pocket , and replaced it by a fac-simile , ( so far as regards externals , ) which I had carefully prepared at my lodgings – imitating the D – – cipher , very readily , by means of a seal formed of bread . "" The disturbance in the street had been occasioned by the frantic behavior of a man with a musket . He had fired it among a crowd of women and children . It proved , however , to have been without ball , and the fellow was suffered to go his way as a lunatic or a drunkard . When he had gone , D – – came from the window , whither I had followed him immediately upon securing the object in view . Soon afterwards I bade him farewell . The pretended lunatic was a man in my own pay . "" "" But what purpose had you , "" I asked , "" in replacing the letter by a fac-simile ? Would it not have been better , at the first visit , to have seized it openly , and departed ? "" "" D – – , "" replied Dupin , "" is a desperate man , and a man of nerve . His hotel , too , is not without attendants devoted to his interests . Had I made the wild attempt you suggest , I might never have left the Ministerial presence alive . The good people of Paris might have heard of me no more . But I had an object apart from these considerations . You know my political prepossessions . In this matter , I act as a partisan of the lady concerned . For eighteen months the Minister has had her in his power . She has now him in hers – since , being unaware that the letter is not in his possession , he will proceed with his exactions as if it was . Thus will he inevitably commit himself , at once , to his political destruction . His downfall , too , will not be more precipitate than awkward . It is all very well to talk about the facilis descensus Averni ; but in all kinds of climbing , as Catalani said of singing , it is far more easy to get up than to come down . In the present instance I have no sympathy – at least no pity – for him who descends . He is that monstrum horrendum , an unprincipled man of genius . I confess , however , that I should like very well to know the precise character of his thoughts , when , being defied by her whom the Prefect terms ' a certain personage ' he is reduced to opening the letter which I left for him in the card-rack . "" "" How ? did you put any thing particular in it ? "" "" Why – it did not seem altogether right to leave the interior blank – that would have been insulting . D – – , at Vienna once , did me an evil turn , which I told him , quite good humoredly , that I should remember . So , as I knew he would feel some curiosity in regard to the identity of the person who had outwitted him , I thought it a pity not to give him a clue . He is well acquainted with my MS . , and I just copied into the middle of the blank sheet the words – "" ' – – – – Un dessein si funeste , S ' il n ' est digne d ' Atrée , est digne de Thyeste . They are to be found in Crébillon's ' Atrée . ' """	Prose/Lyrical
249	Welcome to the University of Birmingham Environment homepage . The University recognises that in pursuing its educational and research objectives , it has a responsibility and it should take the opportunity to protect and nurture its immediate environment . By exercising proper control over its activities the University will promote the use of sustainable resources and discourage wasteful or damaging practices . The University's Environmental Policy Statement sets out the University's aims and objectives for safeguarding the environment . Further information , including Current Responsibilities at University Level , may be found on these web pages . For guidance on making requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act / Environmental Information Regulations please go to The University of Birmingham Freedom of Information Act Website . Staff and students should follow the Information for Staff and Students links on these pages . The University of Birmingham has an impressive record in environmental research and teaching , with around 130 academic staff actively engaged in a broad range of disciplines relating to this field . A Centre for Environmental Research and Training has been established to provide a focus for this environmental expertise and to enhance the University's reputation as a centre of excellence . This page is maintained by the Health and Safety Unit	Information/Explanation
930	"Susie walked into her brother Alfie's bedroom and found him trying to feed porridge to his slippers . "" You silly boy , "" she said . "" Slippers do n't eat things ! "" "" Yes they do , "" replied Alfie . "" Grandma told me . "" "" No they do n't and you 're getting porridge everywhere , "" said his sister . "" I 'm telling Mummy about this . "" "" Perhaps they 're just not hungry ? "" wondered Alfie , as Susie went downstairs as fast as she could without running . When their mother arrived , she was not very happy . "" Alfie ! "" she exclaimed . "" You 're feeding porridge to your slippers - and with my best spoon ! "" "" They do n't seem to want to eat , "" said Alfie . "" Do you think I should add more sugar ? "" "" You 'll do no such thing , "" said his mother , sternly . "" The reason those slippers wo n't eat your porridge is because slippers do n't eat anything at all ! "" "" But they do ! "" protested Alfie . "" Grandma told me ! "" "" We 'll see about that ! "" snapped his mother . She was very angry at the way Alfie had completely ruined them . "" Are you going to throw those slippers away ? "" asked Susie . "" I think you should , they 're all crusty and horrible . "" "" Yes , dear , "" said her mother . "" But first , Alfie is going to telephone Grandma and she 's going to tell him the truth . Hungry slippers indeed ! "" With that , she picked up Alfie , carried him downstairs , and rang his Grandma . Alfie had to talk to the old lady . As she spoke , his face grew redder and redder . When he finally hung up , his mother looked ever so smug . "" Slippers do n't eat breakfast , do they , Alfie ? "" she said . "" No , Mummy , "" he replied . "" It 's shoes that do ! "" . And before his mother could stop him , he ran off and tipped porridge all over Susie's new trainers . So Never tell small children that shoes have tongues . Illustration by Roy Bartle Image size : approx. 29K ."	Prose/Lyrical
828	B : Side 1 Playlist ( Added 2006-02-22 17 : 47 : 13 ) 1 : Dance Me In - Sons and Daughters 2 : Johnny Cash - Sons and Daughters 3 : Talk to Me , Dance with Me - Hot Hot Heat 4 : Evil and a Heathen - Franz Ferdinand 5 : Love Will Tear us Apart - Joy Division 6 : Gigantic - The Pixies 7 : Jacquline - Franz Ferdinand 8 : Heart of Glass - Blondie 9 : Come On Home - Franz Ferdinand 10 : Back Off Boogaloo - Ringo Starr 11 : Take Me Out - Franz Ferdinand 12 : Eleanor Put your Boots On - Franz Ferdinand 13 : Take Me Out ( Livelounge ) - Scissor Sisters Cover of Franz Ferdinand 14 : Flagpole Sitta - Harvey Danger 15 : I 'm So Alone - Mad Caddies 16 : Beer - Reel Big Fish 17 : Cramp Your Style - 2 Many DJs 18 : Forever Lost - The Magic Numbers 19 : Age Of Aquarius - The Mamas and the Papas 20 : She Fell Into My Arms - Ed Hardcourt 21 : I See You , You See Me - The Magic Numbers 22 : Do n't Come Running - Hal 23 : Long Legs - The Magic Numbers 24 : Taker Me Out - The Magic Numbers cover of Franz Ferdinand 25 : Love Me Like You - The Magic Numbers	Information/Explanation
132	Common symptoms of malware If you 're seeing suspicious pop-ups , unwanted toolbars , redirects , strange Google search results , or other unexpected behavior on your computer , you may have been tricked into installing malicious software ( also known as ' malware ' ) on your computer . In this article , we 've provided some recommendations on how you can prevent and remove malware . ( Note that Google is n't affiliated with any of the programs we suggest in this article , and we 're unable to vouch for their effectiveness . Our users have told us they often work . ) If clicking a Google search result has redirected you to a suspicious site , please report the suspicious site before trying the anti-spyware software below . This will help us investigate malware activity and hopefully help prevent it in the future . First , use anti-spyware software to detect and remove malware from your computer The following programs can remove the most common malware . You may need to try more than one to catch every instance of malware on your computer . Make sure to use the latest versions of these programs . Malwarebytes' Anti-Malware Spyware Doctor with Anti-Virus , which is available as a part of Google Pack MacScan ( Mac ) Check to see if the issue has been resolved . Still having trouble ? Try these more advanced techniques READ THIS FIRST : These techniques involve some advanced steps , like reviewing and analyzing logs produced by your computer . If you 're not sure how to take these steps properly , you may want to consult a technician . Deleting legitimate lines in your HijackThis log can have serious repercussions for your computer . Use a bootable anti-virus rescue CD to scan your computer If the malware is preventing your computer from starting properly , you may want to use a bootable anti-virus CD to scan and clean your files . This method of scanning your computer helps detect malware that may be deeply embedded within your system files . Such malware may go undetected when using normal anti-virus detection methods . Use HijackThis to detect changed settings ( Windows only ) Many people have used HijackThis , an advanced anti-spyware application , to find settings on their computers that may have been changed by malware . HijackThis will create a log of files and settings that you should then analyze , to determine if they have been affected by malware . Here are some support forums where you can post your HijackThis log and receive technical assistance . Google is n't affiliated with these forums , and we ca n ' t make any promises about the quality of the advice they might provide . After using HijackThis , run anti-spyware programs again , such as the ones listed above , to see if additional malware shows up . Turn off System Restore and scan again ( Windows only ) System Restore is a Windows backup feature ; it periodically backs up files on your computer in case you need to revert to an earlier version of your operating system at a later point . If the malware was inadvertently included in a system restore point , you 'll need to disable System Restore , before anti-spyware programs can remove the malware . Here 's how : Clear your browser's cache . See instructions Disable the System Restore functionality on your computer ( administrative rights required ) . Go to the Start menu . Select Control Panel . Double-click System . Click the System Restore tab . Select the ' Turn off System Restore ' checkbox . Restart your computer . Run anti-spyware programs again to see if additional malware shows up . Once you 're done checking your system files for malware , remember to re-enable System Restore . If you continue to experience symptoms of malware at this point , consult a technician for additional help . Practice safe browsing to avoid malware To prevent malware from infiltrating your computer in the future , follow these general best practices : Upgrade your computer to use the latest operating systems and software . Turn on automatic updates for your operating system . Turn on automatic updates for your programs . Regularly check for updates for programs that do n't have automatic update functionality , such as Adobe Flash . Do n't click on links you do n't know the destination of . Do n't download email attachments from anyone you do n't know . Sign in to user accounts with limited permissions on your computer . This lessens the ability of malware to make system-wide changes to your computer . Install a firewall and antivirus software , ensuring automatic updates are enabled . If you use an email program on your computer to send and receive messages , install spam filtering software . Many email programs also come with built-in spam filters . Report malware If you feel you were deceived when you installed a program that creates popups or modifies your browser , you may want to file a complaint at StopBadware . org . Additionally , you may want to contact the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) , which handles complaints about deceptive or unfair business practices in the U. S. To file a complaint , do one of the following : Visit https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov/ Call 1-877-FTC-HELP Write to : Federal Trade Commission , CRC-240 , Washington , D. C. 20580 If your complaint is against a company that 's outside the United States , visit http://www.econsumer.gov	Instruction
69	"CHAPTER II Anna Pavlovna's drawing room was gradually filling . The highest Petersburg society was assembled there : people differing widely in age and character but alike in the social circle to which they belonged . Prince Vasili's daughter , the beautiful Helene , came to take her father to the ambassador's entertainment ; she wore a ball dress and her badge as maid of honor . The youthful little Princess Bolkonskaya , known as la femme la plus seduisante de Petersbourg , * was also there . She had been married during the previous winter , and being pregnant did not go to any large gatherings , but only to small receptions . Prince Vasili's son , Hippolyte , had come with Mortemart , whom he introduced . The Abbe Morio and many others had also come . * The most fascinating woman in Petersburg . To each new arrival Anna Pavlovna said , "" You have not yet seen my aunt , "" or "" You do not know my aunt ? "" and very gravely conducted him or her to a little old lady , wearing large bows of ribbon in her cap , who had come sailing in from another room as soon as the guests began to arrive ; and slowly turning her eyes from the visitor to her aunt , Anna Pavlovna mentioned each one's name and then left them . Each visitor performed the ceremony of greeting this old aunt whom not one of them knew , not one of them wanted to know , and not one of them cared about ; Anna Pavlovna observed these greetings with mournful and solemn interest and silent approval . The aunt spoke to each of them in the same words , about their health and her own , and the health of Her Majesty , "" who , thank God , was better today . "" And each visitor , though politeness prevented his showing impatience , left the old woman with a sense of relief at having performed a vexatious duty and did not return to her the whole evening . The young Princess Bolkonskaya had brought some work in a gold-embroidered velvet bag . Her pretty little upper lip , on which a delicate dark down was just perceptible , was too short for her teeth , but it lifted all the more sweetly , and was especially charming when she occasionally drew it down to meet the lower lip . As is always the case with a thoroughly attractive woman , her defect--the shortness of her upper lip and her half-open mouth--seemed to be her own special and peculiar form of beauty . Everyone brightened at the sight of this pretty young woman , so soon to become a mother , so full of life and health , and carrying her burden so lightly . Old men and dull dispirited young ones who looked at her , after being in her company and talking to her a little while , felt as if they too were becoming , like her , full of life and health . All who talked to her , and at each word saw her bright smile and the constant gleam of her white teeth , thought that they were in a specially amiable mood that day . The little princess went round the table with quick , short , swaying steps , her workbag on her arm , and gaily spreading out her dress sat down on a sofa near the silver samovar , as if all she was doing was a pleasure to herself and to all around her . "" I have brought my work , "" said she in French , displaying her bag and addressing all present . "" Mind , Annette , I hope you have not played a wicked trick on me , "" she added , turning to her hostess . "" You wrote that it was to be quite a small reception , and just see how badly I am dressed . "" And she spread out her arms to show her short-waisted , lace-trimmed , dainty gray dress , girdled with a broad ribbon just below the breast . "" Soyez tranquille , Lise , you will always be prettier than anyone else , "" replied Anna Pavlovna . "" You know , "" said the princess in the same tone of voice and still in French , turning to a general , "" my husband is deserting me ? He is going to get himself killed . Tell me what this wretched war is for ? "" she added , addressing Prince Vasili , and without waiting for an answer she turned to speak to his daughter , the beautiful Helene . "" What a delightful woman this little princess is ! "" said Prince Vasili to Anna Pavlovna . One of the next arrivals was a stout , heavily built young man with close-cropped hair , spectacles , the light-colored breeches fashionable at that time , a very high ruffle , and a brown dress coat . This stout young man was an illegitimate son of Count Bezukhov , a well-known grandee of Catherine's time who now lay dying in Moscow . The young man had not yet entered either the military or civil service , as he had only just returned from abroad where he had been educated , and this was his first appearance in society . Anna Pavlovna greeted him with the nod she accorded to the lowest hierarchy in her drawing room . But in spite of this lowest-grade greeting , a look of anxiety and fear , as at the sight of something too large and unsuited to the place , came over her face when she saw Pierre enter . Though he was certainly rather bigger than the other men in the room , her anxiety could only have reference to the clever though shy , but observant and natural , expression which distinguished him from everyone else in that drawing room . "" It is very good of you , Monsieur Pierre , to come and visit a poor invalid , "" said Anna Pavlovna , exchanging an alarmed glance with her aunt as she conducted him to her . Pierre murmured something unintelligible , and continued to look round as if in search of something . On his way to the aunt he bowed to the little princess with a pleased smile , as to an intimate acquaintance . Anna Pavlovna's alarm was justified , for Pierre turned away from the aunt without waiting to hear her speech about Her Majesty's health . Anna Pavlovna in dismay detained him with the words : "" Do you know the Abbe Morio ? He is a most interesting man . "" "" Yes , I have heard of his scheme for perpetual peace , and it is very interesting but hardly feasible . "" "" You think so ? "" rejoined Anna Pavlovna in order to say something and get away to attend to her duties as hostess . But Pierre now committed a reverse act of impoliteness . First he had left a lady before she had finished speaking to him , and now he continued to speak to another who wished to get away . With his head bent , and his big feet spread apart , he began explaining his reasons for thinking the abbe's plan chimerical . "" We will talk of it later , "" said Anna Pavlovna with a smile . And having got rid of this young man who did not know how to behave , she resumed her duties as hostess and continued to listen and watch , ready to help at any point where the conversation might happen to flag . As the foreman of a spinning mill , when he has set the hands to work , goes round and notices here a spindle that has stopped or there one that creaks or makes more noise than it should , and hastens to check the machine or set it in proper motion , so Anna Pavlovna moved about her drawing room , approaching now a silent , now a too-noisy group , and by a word or slight rearrangement kept the conversational machine in steady , proper , and regular motion . But amid these cares her anxiety about Pierre was evident . She kept an anxious watch on him when he approached the group round Mortemart to listen to what was being said there , and again when he passed to another group whose center was the abbe . Pierre had been educated abroad , and this reception at Anna Pavlovna's was the first he had attended in Russia . He knew that all the intellectual lights of Petersburg were gathered there and , like a child in a toyshop , did not know which way to look , afraid of missing any clever conversation that was to be heard . Seeing the self-confident and refined expression on the faces of those present he was always expecting to hear something very profound . At last he came up to Morio . Here the conversation seemed interesting and he stood waiting for an opportunity to express his own views , as young people are fond of doing ."	Prose/Lyrical
1413	Most people who have moderately arched feet mistakenly think they require motion control or shoes for flat feet . People often overestimate the amount their ankles roll inwards during their running cycle . Worse is that new runners often enjoy overpronating excessively . A simple correction of the running gait should be first checked especially for people with moderate arches Ask anyone about beautiful feet and they 'll always describe high arches . Society has attributed high arch feet to beauty and flat feet to strength . Consequently supportive bulky looking shoes for flat feet look like tanks while the pliable neutral shoes for high arches look sexy . This is a problem for some consumers because it has been noted that most buy shoes by the way they look . This is exacerbated by moderately arched women runners who tend to choose shoes that offer little support to their mild overpronation . They key here is to choose shoes for function first then appearance next . Moderately arched runners should realize that the best shoes for them are those that look like a cross between bulky sneakers and light neutrals . Shoes offering stability are flooding the market . But since they tend to cater to people whose gaits range from mild overpronation to moderate overpronation it can be a challenge to find the right one . Truth to be told motion control sneakers will fill better than the wrong pair of stability treads . Read reviews of these running shoes to find out if they provide too little or too much support for your unique foot . Remember not all moderately arched feet require the same amount of overpronation protection . You need the right form of stability to avoid injuries .	Instruction
936	"A boy asked his father , "" How much do you earn in an hour ? "" The father got mad and answered roughly , "" Do n't bother me . "" He was tired and irritable after a tough day at work , but the boy insisted . "" Please , how much do you earn ? "" The father said in a bad tone of voice , "" six pounds . "" Then his son asked , "" Father can you loan me three pounds ? "" The father said to him in an angry tone , "" I told you not to bother me , shut up and go to your room ! "" At bedtime the father was more calm and felt bad about the way he had treated his son . He went upstairs to his son's room and asked , "" Are you asleep ? "" He gave to the boy the three pounds that he had asked for . The boy thanked his father , put his hand under his pillow , pulled out three pound coins , and said , "" I have six pounds father , could I buy one hour of your time ? "" But our Heavenly Father ..."	Prose/Lyrical
362	"Participants : Ronnie Irving , Ian Kinley , Derek McAlone and Dave Thexton General Comments This was essentially a repeat of a trip that three of us ( RI , IK and DT ) had made in October 2002 though an additional five days allowed us more time at each site and an opportunity to explore a new area ( the plains of southern Badajoz ) . Although the dates of the two trips overlapped , we noticed a number of differences ; in particular , in 2003 we saw plenty of Purple Herons and Hoopoes ( we had none in 2002 ) while Los Lances ( Tarifa Beach ) was drier and less productive in 2003 than in 2002 . There were many highlights in two bird-filled weeks but perhaps the abiding memory will be of a spectacular concentration of thousands of Glossy Ibis , storks , egrets , waders and gulls packed into one wet rice field at Isla Menor . It was also interesting to note the change in birds during the course of our trip - in the space of two weeks Meadow Pipits and Serins had gone from non-existent to common while swifts had disappeared . As last year we failed to find any rare swifts at Bolonia or Zahara , nor could we find any Little Bustards despite plenty of easily visible Great Bustards on the plains of southern Badajoz . We also repeated what is fast becoming a traditional fruitless search for Azure-winged Magpies in the horrendous Algaida Pinewoods ( they were , of course , all over the place north of Seville ) . Weather Quite mixed with some cool days and a fair amount of rain . Low cloud , rain and unfavourable winds at times hampered raptor migration at Tarifa , which proved less spectacular than in 2002 . About half the time however , conditions were ideal ; dry , sunny , calm and warm but never too hot to bird . Birding light lasted from about 08.15 ( no need for early starts ! ) to about 20.15 . Travel We flew from Liverpool to Malaga with EasyJet ( £ 100 return , booked over the internet , very efficient and virtually hassle-free ) . At Malaga airport , we picked up a hired Renault Scenic Diesel from Record Rentacar ( 342 euros , booked over the internet with Carjet and again very smooth and efficient ) . Accommodation We had not intended to pre-book any accommodation , having had no problems in 2002 , but prior to departure we learned that the European Kite Surfing Championships were being held in Tarifa during our time there so decided to book somewhere for the first few nights . We need not have worried ; it turned out to be no busier than usual , there is ample choice of accommodation in the area and we would have had no difficulty finding somewhere . However , we did have problems later in the trip - we had to move earlier than planned from our hotel in Fuente de Cantos as it was fully booked the next night ( a Saturday , frequently difficult for accommodation in our experience ) and , more seriously , we could not find any accommodation at all in , or near , Grazalema . Half a dozen hotels were all full and a radical change of itinerary saw us abandon our stay in the mountains and return to Tarifa . Anyone planning to visit the Grazalema area would be well advised to book in advance , at least at weekends , and be prepared for hordes of noisy tourists . We stayed at the following : - Hotel Cortija Las Pinas ( set back from the N340 8km west of Tarifa ) www . c ortijolaspinas . c om Four nights , 37 euros per night per twin-bedded apartment . Very comfortable ( though the lack of air-conditioning may be a problem in hotter periods ) and well situated . No proper restaurant but there was plenty nearby . Hostal Alcazar ( just east of Chipiona alongside road to Sanlucar de Barrameda ) Two nights ; 30 euros a night per twin-bedded room . Comfortable ( with air-conditioning ) and good value . Much better than outward appearances suggested . No restaurant but bar open in evenings and owner did get up specially to make us coffee at 07.30 . Hotel El Desembarco at Los Palacios y Villafranca Avenida de Cadiz , 4 . 41.720 Los Palacios . Sevilla . T el : 95 581 31 00 Fax : 95 581 23 23 . Two nights ; 35 euros per night per twin-bedded room . Very comfortable and excellent value . Good restaurant and bar . Sole drawback was difficulty with on-street parking ( we managed to pick up a parking ticket ! ) . Hotel Rural "" La Fabrica "" at Fuente de Cantos http://www.hrlafabrica.com or e-mail hotel @ hrlafabrica . c om Two nights ; 55 euros per night per twin-bedded room . Very nice indeed if a touch pricey ( though not by British standards ) . Good restaurant . Excellent location with Great Bustards , Black Vultures and Black-bellied Sandgrouse just five minutes drive away and Black-shouldered Kites within 15km . Hostal El Pilar at Monesterio One night ; 36 euros a night per twin-bedded room . Comfortable and good value but a lot of traffic noise . Very good bar / restaurant just across the road under same ownership . The restaurant menu included some interesting English translations such as "" scum "" which turned out to be ice cream and "" thorns to the brave sauce "" which remained unidentified , as none of us was brave enough to order it ! Hotel Cordoniz ( alongside N340 just west of Tarifa ) La Codorniz , Carretera Nacional 340 - Km . 79 , 11380 TARIFA ( Cadiz ) http://www.lacodorniz.com Tel ( 34 ) 956 684744 Fax : ( 34 ) 956 684101 Two nights ; 70 euros per night per twin-bedded bungalow apartment including , unusually , continental breakfast ( served from 08.00 , allowing just enough time before it got light enough to bird ) . Superb , very comfortable , excellent restaurant and brilliant location . Easily the best place we stayed but reflected in the price . Itinerary October 1st : Malaga-Tarifa , with most of our half-day's birding at or near Tarifa . October 2nd-4th : Based at Tarifa with birding done in Tarifa area , La Janda and Sierra de la Plata . October 5th : Tarifa-Bonanza . Birding at Bonanza Salinas and Laguna de Tarelo . October 6th : Birding at Trebujena Marismas , Algaida Salinas and Bonanza Salinas . October 7th-8th : Based at Los Palacios y Villafranca birding sites on the east bank of the Guadalquivir ( Brazo del Este / Isla Menor ) . October 9th : Los Palacios y Villafranca-Fuente de Cantos birding en route and , in evening , in the Fuente de Cantos area . October 10th-11th : Fuente de Cantos area including Sierra de Hornachos . Overnight at Monesterio on 11th . October 12th : Monesterio-Isla Menor . Full morning's birding at Isla Menor before travelling to Grazalema . Failed to find accommodation and continued on to Tarifa . October 13th-14th : Birding in Tarifa area before travelling to Malaga late morning on 14th . Sites Visited : Los Lances ( Tarifa Beach ) Superb site that we accessed from several points between the harbour and the football stadium c2km to the north . Rather drier ( especially on our second visit ) than in 2002 with gulls and terns less obliging but different birds every day and well worth repeated visits . We found seawatching better from the beach near the football stadium and / or the causeway to the island than from the coast on the Mediterranean side of the fort , with birds closer and more numerous ( though you do lose the advantage of height ) . The dunes and rough grassy areas behind the beach were also well worth exploring . Lots of potential for a major "" find "" here . We also paid several visits to the inlet behind Playa Palomas , which is essentially an extension of Los Lances about 8km north of Tarifa . Though heavily disturbed by surfers , it did have an interesting tidal inlet with potential for good birds . Ciguena Negra watchpoint , Tarifa We did our raptor watching from here ( which we called Tarifa Observatory in our 2002 report ) . It 's the first viewpoint east of Tarifa ( take the first minor track left off the main road near the top of the hill going east out of Tarifa in the direction of an ugly-looking Cepsa compound / building ) . The small concrete observatory structure ( now sporting a nice drawing or two Black Storks on the wall ) is situated on a low foothill overlooking the town and coastal strip and affords some protection from the sun and wind . It is manned at times by locals monitoring the raptor and stork migration La Janda ( pictured right ) Excellent plains area , with reedy drainage ditches and rice fields , plenty of potential . Very drivable tracks , with no apparent access problems , at an elevated level to the surrounding fields . Huge numbers of White Storks assembling close to the tracks with raptors constantly in view overhead . Sierra de la Plata Area of low coastal limestone hills , not brilliant overall though well known for breeding White-rumped and Little Swifts . Bonanza Salinas Superb site with no access problems ( contrary to Gosney ) . Large concentrations of birds with a network of drivable tracks allowing very close views . Algaida Salinas Another excellent area . Again there are now no access problems ( see Gosney ) . An extension of the above site with similar birds though the generally deeper water resulted in a subtle difference in the species using the area . Trebujena Marismas An interesting area of farmland , marismas and lagoons situated between Trebujena and the Guadalquivir north of Algaida . We saw our only Pin-tailed Sandgrouse here . Laguna de Tarelo Good access and viewing , with easy White-headed Ducks . Algaida Pinewoods We again failed to see the promised Azure-winged Magpies here in two visits . Not an enjoyable area to bird due to local "" boy racers "" on motorbikes and inconsiderate 4xwheel drive owners haring along the rough track . May be more productive when quiet . Brazo del Este / Isla Menor Superb site that includes the area Gosney refers to as the Pinzon Marshes . Close range viewing mostly from a road level higher than the surrounding habitat gives wonderful views of the full range of marisma species . A must visit site , which , with reports of accessible areas of the Coto Donana being dry at the time of our trip , appears to have more reliable water levels than the Coto itself . In fact , water levels at Brazo del Este were considerable higher than in 2002 with no muddy margins for the Bluethroats or waders seen last year . However , more than adequate compensation was provided by the rice fields at Isla Menor where harvesting was underway and conditions were perfect for feeding waterbirds . Water levels are likely to change constantly - indeed they had done so between our two visits - and it 's a case of driving the network of tracks to find where the birds are concentrated . Make sure you continue beyond the Acebuche Bar onto the tracks towards San Vicente Ferrier - we found this the most productive area on our visit . Plains of southern Badajoz We birded the triangle formed by Fuente de Cantos , Llerena and Usagre but concentrated most on the area east of Fuente de Cantos where we were based and found it excellent for Great Bustards and Black-bellied Sandgrouse though we saw neither Little Bustards nor Pin-tailed Sandgrouse here . It was also pretty good for raptors with Black-shouldered Kite , Bonelli's Eagle , Golden Eagle , Black Vulture , Hen Harrier and lots of Red Kites . Sierra de Hornachos Disappointing with far fewer raptors on show than the literature had led us to believe . For details and directions to all the sites we visited we used : - Gosney's Finding Birds in Southern Spain . Though in most cases the directions and maps were up to the usual high standard , woefully out of date in places , especially re Bonanza and Algaida Salinas . Also in the section on Brazo del Este he regularly refers to Isla Major when he means Isla Menor . No updates were available on the Birdguides website prior to our trip . Where to watch birds in Southern and Western Spain by Garcia and Patterson . Excellent and up to date , with much useful background information . Birdwatching on Spain's Southern Coast by John R. Butler . See also his website at www . d onanabirdtours . c om which gives some site information and includes up-to-date trip reports from the Donana area . Useful extra information was gleaned from trip reports available on the Birdtours website www . b irdtours . c o . u k / tripreports and we also looked at the Rare Birds in Spain website www . r arebirdspain . n et prior to our trip for info on latest rarities . We used the Michelin map 446 Espagne Sud Species List We recorded a total of 180 species , listed below . The figures in brackets represent the number of days each species was recorded e . g . ( 4 / 14 ) means that a species was seen on four days during our 14 day trip ( bearing in mind that the first and last days were really only half-days of birding ) and gives a crude indication of how easy each species was to see . More details are given of the rarer or more interesting species . Little Grebe Tachybaptus ruficollis ( 5 / 14 ) Records included 200 + at Trebujena Marismas on 6th Great Crested Grebe Podiceps cristatus ( 5 / 14 ) Black-necked Grebe Podiceps nigricollis ( 1 / 14 ) - 1 at Trebujena Marismas on 6th Cory's Shearwater Calonectris diomedea ( 7 / 14 ) - Ever present off Los Lances often very close inshore , max . 100 on 14th . Also seen close in at Bolonia and Zahara de los Atunes . Balearic Shearwater Puffinus mauretanicus ( 5 / 14 ) - Birds seen heading into the Mediterranean every day off Los Lances with a maximum count of 50 ( including 33 in 30 minutes ) on 4th . Also seen off Zahara de los Atunes Gannet Morus bassanus ( 6 / 14 ) - Recorded every day off Los Lances Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo ( 6 / 14 ) Night Heron Nycticorax nycticorax ( 7 / 14 ) - 1 juv at La Janda on 2nd ; 2 juvs at La Janda on 4th ; 8 at Laguna de Tarelo on 5th ; 1 juv at Trebujena Marismas on 6th ; c15 at Brazo del Este on 7th ; c30 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor on 8th ; c10 at Isla Menor on 12th Squacco Heron Ardeola ralloides ( 4 / 14 ) - 1 at Laguna de Tarelo on 5th ; 40 + ( including a flock of 32 ) at Brazo del Este on 7th ; c30 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor on 8th ; c20 at Isla Menor on 12th Cattle Egret Bubulcus ibis ( 14 / 14 ) - Widespread . Little Egret Egretta garzetta ( 12 / 14 ) - Widespread . Especially numerous at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor Great White Egret Ardea alba ( 1 / 14 ) - 1 at Algaida Salinas on 6 / 10 . Grey Heron Ardea cinerea ( 13 / 14 ) Purple Heron Ardea purpurea ( 3 / 14 ) - 1 at La Janda on 4th ; c6 at Brazo del Este on 7th ; 3 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor on 8th Black Stork Ciconia nigra ( 8 / 14 ) - A flock of 23 over Tarifa on 1st ; 10 at La Janda on 2nd ; 11 over Tarifa on 3rd ; 1 at Bonanza Salinas on 5th ; 1 at Trebujena Marismas on 6th ; c30 at Brazo del Este on 7th ; 2 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor on 8th ; 6 at Isla Menor on 12th White Stork Ciconia ciconia ( 9 / 14 ) - Widespread . Most notable records comprised many hundreds on the ground at La Janda on 2nd ( far fewer there on 4th ) ; 1000 + at Brazo del Este on 7th ; and 8th ; c1000 including hundreds in a field that was being ploughed ; lots roosting on nests at San Roque railway sidings at dusk on 12th . We saw none north of Seville though there were plenty of deserted nests . Glossy Ibis Plegadis falcinellus ( 3 / 14 ) - 3 at Brazo del Este on 7th ; 1000 + at Isla Menor on 8th ( a magnificent spectacle ) ; c300 at Isla Menor on 12th Spoonbill Platalea leucorodia ( 7 / 14 ) - 1 at La Janda on 2nd ; a flock of 22 over the sea at Zahara de los Atunes and 3 at La Janda on 4th ; 20 + at Bonanza Salinas on 5th with small numbers there on 6th ; 50 + at Trebujena Marismas on 6th ; small numbers at Brazo del Este on 7th ; c20 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor on 8th ; just 1 at Isla Menor on 12th Greater Flamingo Phoenicopterus ruber ( 4 / 14 ) - 500 + at Bonanza Salinas on 5th ; several hundred at Trebujena Marismas and 1000 + at Bonanza Salinas on 6th ; c250 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor on 8th ; c300 at Isla Menor on 12th Greylag Goose Anser anser ( 2 / 14 ) - 20 at Trebujena Marismas on 6th ; 50 at Isla Menor on 12th Wigeon Anas Penelope ( 2 / 14 ) Gadwall Anas strepera ( 3 / 14 ) Teal Anas crecca ( 1 / 14 ) Mallard Anas platyrhynchos ( 9 / 14 ) Pintail Anas acuta ( 4 / 14 ) Garganey Anas querquedula ( 1 / 14 ) - 1 drake at Brazo del Este on 7th Shoveler Anas clypeata ( 5 / 14 ) Marbled Duck Marmaronetta angustirostris ( 3 / 14 ) - 6 at Trebujena Marismas on 6th ; 20 + at Brazo del Este on 7th and 30 there on 8th Red-crested Pochard Netta rufina ( 2 / 14 ) - 3 at Laguna de Tarelo on 5th ; 6 + at Trebujena Marismas on 6th ; 1 at Isla Menor on 12th Pochard Aythea farina ( 1 / 14 ) White-headed Duck Oxyura leucocephala ( 2 / 14 ) - 13 at Laguna de Tarelo on 5th ( much lower numbers here than last year ) ; 41 at Trebujena Marismas on 6th Honey Buzzard Pernis apivorus ( 5 / 14 ) - 5 at Tarifa on 1st ; 2 at Tarifa and 1 at La Janda on 2nd ; 10 at Tarifa and 1 at Bolonia on 3rd ; 15 + at Zahara de los Atunes on 4th ; 1 at Tarifa on 14th Black Kite Milvus migrans ( 3 / 14 ) - 3at Tarifa on 1st ; 1 at La Janda on 2nd ; 2-3at Tarifa on 3rd Red Kite Milvus milvus ( 4 / 14 ) - 2 at Algaida / Trebujena Marismas on 6th ; quite common in southern Badajoz with up to 30 seen in a day Black-shouldered Kite Elanus caeruleus ( 2 / 14 ) - Up to 3 birds seen early morning and late evening 9 / 10-10 / 10 at site 14km east of Fuente de Cantos alongside road to Llerena . Egyptian Vulture Neophron percnopterus ( 3 / 14 ) - 3 at La Janda on 2nd ; 3 at Tarifa on 3rd ; 1 at Tarifa on 13th Videograb above . Black Vulture Aegypius monachus ( 2 / 14 ) - A wasp sting to IK brought about an unscheduled and fortuitous stop near Fuente de Cantos on 9th resulting in the sighting of 2 close range Black Vultures . Despite the insignificant / great * pain , IK stoically suffered in silence / yelped like a stuck pig * . A single east of Fuente de Cantos later the same day and 1 in the Fuente de Cantos / Llerena / Usagre triangle on 10th . * delete as applicable Griffon Vulture Gyps fulvus ( 10 / 14 ) - Recorded , usually in small numbers , at several sites , most notably 60 + at Algaida Pinewoods on 5th ; a migrating flock of 87 over Tarifa on 13th ; at least 80 at a carcase c12km west of Tarifa on 13th giving stunning close range views Short-toed Eagle Circaetus gallicus ( 6 / 14 ) - Our first was seen over the streets of Algeciras while we were in traffic on 1st , then seen at Tarifa whenever weather conditions allowed including 100 + on 3rd and 50 + on 13th . Also 10 + at Sierra de la Plata on 4th and smaller numbers Brazo del Este / Isla Menor Marsh Harrier Circus aeruginosus ( 8 / 14 ) - Particularly numerous at La Janda and Brazo del Este / Isla Menor where it was often possible to have 6 in the scope at once . One near Fuente de Cantos on 11th . Hen Harrier Circus cyaneus ( 1 / 14 ) - At least 2 ( a male and a ringtail ) east of Fuente de Cantos on 10th Montagu's Harrier Circus pygargus ( 1 / 14 ) - 1 juv at La Janda on 2nd was our only sighting Sparrowhawk Accipiter nisus ( 10 / 14 ) - Records included 30 at Tarifa on 3rd Common Buzzard Buteo buteo ( 9 / 14 ) Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos ( 2 / 14 ) - 1 imm near Usagre on 10th and an adult at Sierra de Hornachos on 11th Booted Eagle Hieraaetus pennatus ( 10 / 14 ) - Seen at Tarifa whenever weather conditions allowed including 25 on 1st and 60 + on 3rd . Also c10 at La Janda on 2nd ; 10 + at Sierra de la Plata on 4th and small numbers at Bonanza Salinas , Sierra de Hornachos and Brazo del Este / Isla Menor . These included stunning views of a dark-phase juv perched in a tree at Brazo del Este that we showed to 2 members of the Gardia Civil who were taking a keen interest in the contents of our boot ! Bonellis Eagle Hieraaetus fasciatus ( 4 / 14 ) - Superb views of an adult being mobbed by a Marsh Harrier at La Janda on 2nd ; 2 adults near Usagre on 10th ; 1 near Grazelema on 12th , 2 adults c12km west of Tarifa on 13th Osprey Pandion haliaetus ( 3 / 10 ) - 2at Trebujena Marismas / Algaida Salinas on 6th ; 1 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor on 7th ; 2 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor on 8th Kestrel Falco tinnunculus ( 13 / 14 ) - However hard we looked all the Kestrels we were able to view closely turned out to be Common Hobby Falco subbuteo ( 3 / 14 ) - Lovely close views of 3 at Tarifa on 3rd ; 1 near Fuente de Cantos on 9th ; 1 over our hotel at Tarifa on 13th Peregrine Falco peregrinus ( 4 / 14 ) Red-legged Partridge Alectoris rufa ( 6 / 14 ) Pheasant Phasianus colchicus ( 2 / 14 ) Water Rail Rallus aquaticus ( 1 / 14 ) 1 heard at Isla Menor on 8th . Moorhen Gallinula chloropus ( 8 / 14 ) Purple Gallinule Porphyrio porphyrio ( 4 / 14 ) - 2 at Laguna de Tarelo on 5th ; very common and easy to see at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor , including 50 in one rice field on 12th Coot Fulica atra ( 6 / 14 ) - Scrutiny of the Coot flocks at various sites failed to reveal any Crested Coots Great Bustard Otis tarda ( 2 / 14 ) - 46 ( 3 + 24 + 15 + 4 ) in the Fuente de Cantos area on 9th and 26 ( 16 + 3 + 7 ) in the Fuente de Cantos / Llerena / Usagre triangle on 10th Black-winged Stilt Himantopus himantopus ( 6 / 14 ) - Present in good numbers at Bonanza Salinas , Algaida Salinas and Brazo del Este ; small numbers at La Janda and large numbers at Isla Menor including 1891 in just one wet field . Avocet Recurvirostra avosetta ( 4 / 14 ) - Present in good numbers at Bonanza Salinas ( 1000 + on 6th ) , Algaida Salinas and Isla Menor ( c200 on 12th ) Little Ringed Plover Charadrius dubius ( 4 / 14 ) Ringed Plover Charadrius hiaticula ( 11 / 14 ) Kentish Plover Charadrius alexandrinus ( 9 / 14 ) Grey Plover Pluvialis squatarola ( 5 / 14 ) Lapwing Vanellus vanellus ( 7 / 14 ) Knot Calidris canutus ( 3 / 14 ) Sanderling Calidris alba ( 7 / 14 ) Little Stint Calidris minuta ( 3 / 14 ) - Hundreds at Bonanza Salinas ; 50 + at Isla Menor on 12th Temminck's Stint Calidris temminckii ( 1 / 14 ) - Super close views of 7 birds in a shallow corner of a wet field at Isla Menor on 8th . Water levels had been raised and birds had moved on by 12th . Curlew Sandpiper Calidris ferruginea ( 3 / 14 ) - 100 + at Bonanza Salinas ; 1 at Isla Menor on 12th Dunlin Calidris alpina ( 8 / 14 ) Ruff Philomachus pugnax ( 5 / 14 ) - 20 + at Bonanza Salinas ; 500 + at Isla Menor on 8th Snipe Gallinago gallinago ( 5 / 14 ) Black-tailed Godwit Limosa limosa ( 5 / 14 ) -500 + at Bonanza Salinas and c1000 at Isla Menor on 8th Bar-tailed Godwit Limosa lapponica ( 4 / 14 ) Whimbrel Numenius phaeopus ( 1 / 14 ) - 2 at Tarifa on 13th Curlew Numenius arquata ( 1 / 14 ) Spotted Redshank Tringa erythopus ( 4 / 14 ) - Records included 20 + at Bonanza Salinas and 10 + at Isla Menor Redshank Tringa tetanus ( 8 / 14 ) Greenshank Tringa nebularia ( 6 / 14 ) - Records included 20 + at both Bonanza Salinas and Isla Menor Green Sandpiper Tringa ochropus ( 8 / 14 ) - Seen at several sites including c20 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor Wood Sandpiper Tringa glareola ( 3 / 14 ) - 10 + at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor Common Sandpiper Actitis hypoleucos ( 7 / 14 ) Turnstone Arenaria interpres ( 5 / 14 ) Pomarine Skua Stercorarius pomarinus ( 1 / 14 ) - 1 juv chasing an Audouin's Gull off Los Lances on 3rd Arctic Skua Stercorarius parasiticus ( 1 / 14 ) - 1 off Los Lances on 4th Great Skua Catharacta skua ( 2 / 14 ) - Singles off Zahara de los Atunes on 4th and Los Lances on 14th Black-headed Gull Larus ridibundus ( 11 / 14 ) Slender-billed Gull Larus genei ( 2 / 14 ) -30 + at Bonanza Salinas on 5th but just 1 there next day Audouin's Gull Larus audouinii ( 7 / 14 ) - Ever present on Los Lances including 71 on 3rd , 78 on 4th and 134 on 13th . Also small numbers on the beach at Atlanterra on 4th and 3 at Bonanza Salinas on 5th Lesser Black-backed Gull Larus fuscus ( 12 / 14 ) Yellow-legged Gull Larus cachinnans ( 12 / 14 ) Caspian Tern Sterna caspia ( 2 / 14 ) - 1 at Los Lances on 1st and 6 at Bonanza Salinas on 6 th Sandwich Tern Sterna sandvicensis ( 8 / 14 ) - Ever present in small numbers at Los Lances , with small numbers also seen at Bonanza Salinas Common Tern Sterna hirundo ( 4 / 14 ) - Up to 3 at Los Lances ; 1 at Bonanza Salinas ; 12 + at Trebujena Marismas Little Tern Sterna albifrons ( 1 / 14 ) - 10 + at Trebujena Marismas Whiskered Tern Chlidonias hybridus ( 4 / 14 ) - c20 at Trebujena Marismas / Algaida Salinas on 6th ; 2 at Brazo del Este on 7th ; 20 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor on 8th and 2 there on 12th Black Tern Chlidonias niger ( 2 / 14 ) - 1 at La Janda on 2nd ; 10 at Trebujena Marismas on 6th Pin-tailed Sandgrouse Pterocles alchata ( 1 / 14 ) - 9 ( 8 + 1 ) at Trebujena Marismas on 6th Black-bellied Sandgrouse Pterocles orientalis ( 3 / 14 ) - 9 ( 6 + 3 ) in the Fuente de Cantos area on 9th and a total of 41 in the Fuente de Cantos / Llerena / Usagre triangle on 10th , 6 near Fuente de Cantos on 11th . Feral Pigeon Columba livia ( 14 / 14 ) Woodpigeon Columba palumbus ( 4 / 14 ) Collared Dove Streptopelia decaocto ( 11 / 14 ) Turtle Dove Streptopelia turtur ( 3 / 14 ) Barn Owl Tyto alba ( 1 / 14 ) - 1 hunting after dark in front of our hotel at Tarifa on 13th Little Owl Athene noctua ( 3 / 14 ) Eagle Owl Bubo bubo ( 2 / 14 ) - 2 heard calling at dusk at the "" Black-shouldered Kite site "" east of Fuente de Cantos on 9th with one heard there next night Nightjar sp . ( 1 / 14 ) - 1 flushed from the road near Bolonia in the dark on 3rd ; probably Red-necked but not positively identified . Common Swift Apus apus ( 1 / 14 ) - Several on first visit to Tarifa Pallid Swift Apus pallidus ( 3 / 14 ) - At Tarifa , 1 on 2nd ; 4 on 3rd and 3 on 4th Alpine Swift Apus melba ( 2 / 14 ) - 2 at Tarifa on 3rd Kingfisher Alcedo atthis ( 8 / 14 ) Hoopoe Upupa Epops ( 5 / 14 ) Small numbers in most areas . Green Woodpecker Picus viridis sharpiei ( 3 / 14 ) Great Spotted Woodpecker Dendrocopus major ( 3 / 14 ) Calandra Lark Melanocorypha calandra ( 3 / 14 ) - 3 at Trebujena Marismas on 6th ; 30 + in the Fuente de Cantos area on 9th ; small numbers in the Fuente de Cantos / Llerena / Usagre triangle on 10th ; 2 at Los Lances on 13th Short-toed Lark Calandrella brachydactyla ( 2 / 14 ) - 4 at Los Lances on 4th and 20 flying over on 14th Lesser Short-toed Lark Calandrella rufesc / ens ( 2 / 14 ) - 4 at Bonanza Salinas on 5th and 50 + in ) small flocks at Trebujena Marismas on 6th Crested Lark Galerida cristata ( 14 / 14 ) Thekla Lark Galerida theklae ( 3 / 14 ) - Common in suitable habitat Woodlark Lullula arborea ( 5 / 14 ) - Recorded at several sites and quite common in Sierra de Hornachos with plenty of song Skylark Alauda arvensis ( 5 / 14 ) Sand Martin Riparia riparia ( 4 / 14 ) Crag Martin Hirundo rupestris ( 3 / 14 ) - Quite widespread in small numbers Swallow Hirundo rustica ( 12 / 14 ) Red-rumped Swallow Hirundo daurica ( 5 / 14 ) - Widespread in small numbers right up to our last day House Martin Delichon urbica ( 6 / 14 ) Tree Pipit Anthus trivialis ( 14 / 14 ) - 2 at Tarifa on 14th Meadow Pipit Anthus pratensis ( 7 / 14 ) - All our sightings came after 7th . Yellow Wagtail Motacilla flava ( 10 / 14 ) - Records included 100 + in a ploughed field at La Janda on 2nd Grey Wagtail Motacilla cinerea ( 5 / 14 ) White Wagtail Motacilla alba alba ( 4 / 14 ) Wren Troglodytes troglodytes ( 1 / 14 ) Robin Erithacus rubecula ( 2 / 14 ) Black Redstart Phoenicurus ochruros ( 4 / 14 ) - Singles near Llerena on 10th ; Sierra de Hornachos on 11th and Los Lances on 14th Redstart Phoenicurus phoenicurus ( 2 / 14 ) Whinchat Saxicola rubetra ( 6 / 14 ) Stonechat Saxicola torquata ( 14 / 14 ) Northern Wheatear Oenanthe oenanthe ( 8 / 14 ) Black Wheatear Oenanthe leucura - 5 + in the Sierra de Hornachos on 11th and a single during our flying visit to Grazalema on 12th ( 2 / 14 ) Blue Rock Thrush Monticola solitarius ( 6 / 14 ) - Ones and twos at Tarifa and Sierra de la Plata Blackbird Turdus merula ( 3 / 14 ) Song Thrush Turdus philomelus ( 1 / 14 ) Mistle Thrush Turdus viscivorus ( 2 / 14 ) Cetti's Warbler Cettia cetti ( 10 / 14 ) Fan-tailed Warbler Cisticola juncidis ( 14 / 14 ) Reed Warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus ( 3 / 14 ) Subalpine Warbler Sylvia cantillans ( 1 / 14 ) - A male at Algaida Salinas on 6th Sardinian Warbler Sylvia melanocephala ( 12 / 14 ) Blackcap Sylvia atricapilla ( 2 / 14 ) Common Chiffchaff Phylloscopus collybita ( 4 / 14 ) Willow Warbler Phylloscopus trochilus ( 2 / 14 ) Firecrest Regulus ignicapillus ( 1 / 14 ) - 2 in the Sierra de Hornachos on 11th Spotted Flycatcher Muscicapa sriata ( 3 / 14 ) Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca ( 1 / 14 ) Blue Tit Parus caeruleus ( 2 / 14 ) Great Tit Parus major ( 5 / 14 ) Long-tailed Tit Aegithalos caudatus irbii ( 1 / 14 ) Nuthatch Sitta europaea ( 1 / 14 ) - 2 in the Sierra de Hornachos on 11th Penduline Tit Remiz pendulinus ( 2 / 14 ) - At least 2 alongside the Rio Guadaira from the road to Isla Menor on 8th and at least 1 there on 12th . This was exactly the same spot where we found the species in 2002 . Southern Grey Shrike Lanius meridionalis ( 5 / 14 ) - Small numbers at La Janda and Brazo del Este / Isla Menor . Much commoner in Southern Badajoz with up to 10 per day seen . Jay Garrulus glandarius ( 1 / 14 ) Magpie Pica pica ( 4 / 14 ) Azure-winged Magpie Cyanopica cyana ( 3 / 14 ) - None seen in Algaida Pinewoods but widespread and numerous north of Seville . Several sizeable flocks seen but the largest gathering was at the Black-shouldered Kite site east of Fuente de Cantos where c200 were seen going to and leaving a roost . Chough Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax ( 1 / 14 ) - Several seen and heard whilst looking for accommodation in Grazalema Jackdaw Corvus monedula ( 2 / 14 ) Raven Corvus corax ( 5 / 14 ) Common Starling Sternus vulgaris ( 3 / 14 ) - Small numbers seen amongst the Spotless Starling flocks at La Janda and around Tarifa Spotless Starling Sturnus unicolor ( 14 / 14 ) - Very numerous House Sparrow Passer domesticus ( 14 / 14 ) Spanish Sparrow Passer hispaniolensis ( 5 / 14 ) - Small numbers found amongst the large sparrow flocks at several sites whenever we could be bothered to look through them Tree Sparrow Passer montanus ( 2 / 14 ) - 1 at Brazo del Este on 7th Rock Sparrow Petronia petronia ( 1 / 14 ) - 3 on wires below the dam at embalse west of Monesterio on 11th Chaffinch Fringilla coelebs ( 2 / 14 ) Serin Serinus serinus ( 4 / 14 ) - 1 at Bolonia on 3rd was our only record until we got north of Seville where they were more common . On our return to Tarifa on 13th / 14th , they had become quite numerous with birds often passing overhead . Greenfinch Carduelis chloris ( 3 / 14 ) Goldfinch Carduelis carduelis ( 12 / 14 ) Linnet Carduelis cannabina ( 13 / 14 ) Corn Bunting Miliaria ( 11 / 14 ) - In sharp contrast to home , very common and numerous , often still to be heard singing Common Waxbill Estrilda astrild ( 6 / 14 ) - Flocks of up to 20 at Brazo del Este / Isla Menor and 1 at Tarifa on 13th / 14th Golden Bishop Eupletes afer ( 1 / 14 ) - A stunning male at Brazo del Este on 7th Why not send us a report , or an update to one of your current reports ?"	Opinion/Argumentation
1501	"To become an innovative manager , you must first recognize a critical axiom : Listening to customers should not solely be the role of call center agents . Listening to the customer should be an innovative manager's primary concern . Of course , this does n't mean sitting in a cubicle and fielding inbound calls under fluorescent lights . It means taking customer service to a deeper level , gathering data , analyzing trends , and responding accordingly . An innovative manager will strive to bring a focus on customer service to every level of the organization . You should make sure that the needs of customers should be understood by every employee , and every task , duty , and obligation should be initiated with these needs in mind . By aggressively focusing on customer needs , employees will eventually respond to them as if it were second nature . Think Long-Term Do n't fall into the same trap suffered by many public companies . The increasingly competitive global environment can force companies to re-engineer themselves , downsize , and cut costs at any corner . CEOs obsessed with golden parachutes and short term fluctuations in their stock prices can become extremely short-sighted . Unfortunately , customer service can be mistakenly seen as inconsequential to sales , and suffer as a result . This internal focus can lead corporations to become disconnected with their customers . Innovative managers recognize the importance of customer service and the value it adds in the long run . They realize that consistently nourishing customer relationships can substantially increase sales over time . The first step to seeing these improvements to fruition is to identify the ideal customer for your business . Ask them questions and attentively listen to their answers . The next step is to analyze their answers , determine their needs , and clearly define processes which will enable those needs to be met . You might be surprised to find that customers are more concerned with customer service and an overall comfort with your company , than the latest bells and whistles . The insights you can gain by actively listening to customers can go a long ways towards improving your brand , product , and ultimately , sales . If you give customers what they want , they will return the favor and give you what you want . American corporations have relied on a broad set of principles for over two hundred years . In today 's rapidly changing global environment , it 's time to rethink tradition and adopt modern set of principles . Companies that fail to adapt will fall by the wayside . Old World Order In the "" old world "" , American businesses set the standards by which global competitors had to follow . This is no longer the case . You must be prepared to think on your feet . The first step any successful manager or entrepreneur must take is to recognize and accept this truth . They must be able to quickly and flexibly move beyond every pre-conceived notion that may have been ingrained since childhood . They must be willing to move out of their respective comfort zones , and adopt entirely new business principles . An updated set of business processes must change the way companies buy , sell , and market goods and services . New processes will change the way you respond to and service customers . For all of its value , Adam Smith's division of labor theories do n't necessarily apply to today's world , and the ability to multi-task and multi-source is at a premium . The point is not to find quick fixes , simple tips , or practices . Incremental changes wo n't get you to where you need to be . Adaptation requires going back to square one and starting from scratch . To properly adjust to the global marketplace , entrepreneurs should n't just copy what everyone else is doing . Successful managers will find new and creative ways to highlight strengths and improve weaknesses . You must look beyond traditional processes and adopt new techniques . By making the appropriate adjustments , your company can dramatically improve performance , and zoom past your competitors . Corporate Navel Gazing You need to ask yourself the right questions when taking the first steps to restructuring and rethinking your business . If you truly want to innovate , do n't ask : "" How can we do this faster ? "" "" How can we cut costs ? "" While these are great questions , you must go even further back to gain clarity . Ask yourself : "" Why do customers choose us ? "" "" Why are we even in business at all ? "" You might find that you or your employees are spending a great deal of time completing functions that answer questions from set 1 rather than 2 . An innovative manager will refocus his or her efforts on providing excellent customer service , quality products , and satisfy customers . Refocusing your efforts wo n't be easy . There is no silver bullet . Taking the plunge is an all-or-nothing decision that must be faithfully adhered to ."	Instruction
82	"Hungary : "" We Voted For Orbán , Not For Goldman Sachs "" Last Saturday , after several protests organized by citizen movements and opposition forces against the politics of the ruling Fidesz-KDNP government , Hungarians supporting those in power decided to express their opinion at a rally called Peace March . According to the Hungarian Interior Ministry's report [ hu ] , some 400,000 people expressed their support for the government at the peaceful - and cheerful - event . ' We are the Hungarian people and we stand for Orbán's government ! ' . Photo by Redjade , used with permission . Those who thought Fidesz-KDNP had lost the trust of the Hungarian citizens , drawing the consequence from the extensive foreign media coverage of the opposition protests in Budapest , were challenged this time by the fact that the government elected in 2010 with a two-thirds majority still enjoyed the support of many . Fidelitas , a youth group derived from Fidesz , shared some 360-degree panoramic photos of the march . The protesters marched from Heroes' Square to Kossuth Square by the Parliament , where brief speeches were delivered . The main organizers of the event were Zsolt Bayer , author of opinion pieces at the conservative daily Magyar Hírlap , Gábor Széles , a wealthy Hungarian entrepreneur and owner of Magyar Hírlap , and András Bencsik , editor-in-chief of Magyar Demokrata [ hu ] , also a Hungarian conservative daily . The right-leaning blog Mandiner has been very critical of the government recently , and , at first , their blogger , Dobray , who visited the Peace March , also had some doubts regarding the event [ hu ] : [ ... ] Compared to what I had anticipated , the march came off even better : the mass of 400,000 ( probably fewer than that , the protest maths [ competition of whose protest had more attendees ] was started by Bencsik at Kossuth Square when he said , referring to a television report , that they were 1 million , which was evidently an unreal figure ) walked the distance , and , as no other options were listed on the program , no lame events happened . The puritan minimalism goes hand in hand with a portion of boredom well known from the first , eventless left-wing rallies . But it 's hard to pick at that . And that there were some groups with Arpad's striped flags [ a symbol of the far right ] was not a big deal , we are used to that , they do n't do any trouble . We will worry about some Arpad stripes protesters in a mass of a couple of hundred thousands if the left wing expels from their community the comrades parading in the USSR and Che t-shirts . [ ... ] The fact that describes the complex situation in Hungary best is that the government's supporters oppose the talks and future agreements on the bailout from the EU and the IMF , while the opposition is in favor of reaching the agreements as soon as possible , in order to strengthen Hungary's volatile economy . Pro-government protesters criticized EU / ECB / IMF for pressure on the government to take more bailout loans . Photo by Redjade , used with permission . Many protesters arrived from outside the capital . The blog of the city of Ócsa wrote [ hu ] about why they considered it important to participate in the march : People set off from almost every settlement of the country to express their solidarity with the government elected with the two-thirds majority , with its leader Viktor Orbán and with everyone who has been attacked in the past days . The marchers stand up for the sovereignity of Hungary and stick to the achievements of democracy , they ca n ' t stand that foreign politicians , businessmen , banks are willing to administer their lives . [ ... ] Véleményvezér pointed out [ hu ] that most of the protesters were elderly : [ ... ] it was very striking that most of the marchers were aged 50 or older . They are the ones whose private pension savings were not taken away , almost none of them has a foreign currency loan , and the government specifically tried to support them , through measures like the one-time 8-percent pension makeup or by implementing the institution of securing employment for older persons . [ ... ] ' We voted for Orbán and not for Goldman Sachs ' . Photo by Redjade , used with permission . Dobray hints at the rumours about paid protesters and organized travel to the rally location , the accusations raised by opposition members : [ ... ] So now we are even , now really each and everyone has brought politics to the street . And it 's funny that at any sort of protest the actual side opposing the protesters tries every method to discredit the other 's event ; and tries to find those whose travel has been paid for , who were paid to come and who were cheated , etc. Everyone is generous when it 's about their protest , but if it 's about the other 's , they turn petty and suspicious . The neighbour's lawn is always wilted . I also would be happy if the Peace March did n't get listed among the ultimate arguments of Fidesz government allowing them to knock down all the opposing opinions . [ ... ] Zoltán Ruzsbaczky of Mos Maiorum blog published a guest post [ hu ] on Konzervatórium blog , noting that the huge number of the pro-government supporters may signify the arrival of a new stage of democracy in Hungary , with a lot of people daring to stand up for their opinion : [ ... ] Of course , this needs a government that applies this trust and successfully navigates the tempestuous sea of international politics and with its economic policy it sets Hungary on the track of growth . Besides this , one ca n ' t get by those masses who still oppose the politics of the government . We will learn only later what the long-term effects [ of this march ] will be , [ and whether there will be any ] ."	News
1528	"FIND US ON Low-intensity laser delivers high-end results "" The wonderful thing about dentistry is that there 's always something new being studied or developed to improve the patient experience , deliver better results , or both , "" observes Michael J. Andersen , DDS . One innovation that Dr. Andersen introduced to his practice last year is the diode laser . This low-intensity light source allows him to treat the soft tissue of the gums and mouth with gentleness and thoroughness , while reducing blood loss and speeding healing . Dr. Andersen explains that the diode laser replaces two instruments used to make incisions on gum tissue : the scalpel and the electro-surge . "" The scalpel offers great precision , but cutting into gum tissue causes a wound that bleeds and often results in a painful healing period , "" he describes . "" If a patient needs a crown that requires a reduction in gum tissue , the bleeding can interfere with our ability to take an accurate impression of the tooth being treated . The diode laser allows me to ' brush ' the gum tissue with light waves , reducing the tissue without pain and without blood loss , so an impression is easier and quicker to acquire , and recovery is much quicker and more comfortable . "" An electro-surge also makes incisions in gum tissue , but uses electrical current that requires the patient to be "" grounded "" against electrical shock . The device can not be used near conductive materials like metal crowns , implants , or fillings because of the risk of arcing . Other uses Dr. Andersen adds that in orthodontic work , it is often necessary to reduce the space between teeth . This compresses the gum tissue in those spaces , causing it to appear puffed up or bulgy . "" I can use the diode laser to reduce the bulging tissue between the teeth to give it a more natural appearance without triggering a sensitive reaction , "" he says . "" A small amount of peroxide will clean the area and by the time a patient gets home after the appointment , the gum tissue looks and feels comfortable . Within a day or two , the appearance is completely natural . "" A diode laser is also a benefit for patients who need a frenectomy , or a reduction of the fibrous muscle under the lip over the front teeth . In some patients , this muscle is exceptionally strong and pulls the gums forward , away from the teeth . The pull of this muscle can even cause the front teeth to separate . "" In the past , we had to numb the area thoroughly , clamp the muscle off , use a scalpel to cut it , then place sutures to close the resulting wound , "" says Dr. Andersen . "" It could take up to two-and-a-half weeks to heal . With the diode laser , we can use a topical anesthetic , ' cut ' the muscle back , and finish without placing a single suture . The area may be sensitive for about a day , but after that there is no discomfort . "" One of the newest uses for the diode laser is in the treatment of periodontal disease . Stronger lasers have been used for several years in tooth root planing and scaling to treat bacteria embedded in the deep ' pockets ' in the gums surrounding the teeth . The process left the mouth sensitive , and there was always a certain amount of bacteria left behind . Dr. Andersen and Staff "" Using a diode laser to reach deep into the pocket after root planing and scaling , we do n't actually cut into the tissue but rather guide this more gentle laser to sterilize the pocket , "" informs Dr. Andersen . "" Then , we use a special attachment to the diode laser that allows us to use the light energy to warm the surrounding gum tissue , which increases circulation and speeds the healing process . "" The diode laser can also be used to help decontaminate the wound bed of a cold sore or canker sore on the lips or in the mouth . This reduces the sensitivity usually associated with mouth ulcers and reduces healing time . "" This treatment needs to be applied before the ulcer begins to heal on its own , or the laser will simple reopen the wound , "" cautions Dr. Andersen . "" But when these sores are just developing and open , the diode laser offers a real benefit in pain reduction and healing time . "" I have been using the diode laser with great success for some time , now , for a variety of applications , and I 've found it to be an excellent advance for keeping my patients more comfortable when tissue has to be reduced or when certain surgical procedures need to be performed . "" Michael J. Andersen , DDS , earned his undergraduate degree from Ohio University and his Doctor of Dental Surgery degree from Case Western Reserve University , Cleveland . Dr. Andersen also completed a post-doctoral program in advanced general ... Read More"	Promotion
164	"Alright . I 'm going to show you a couple of images from a very diverting paper in The Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine . I 'm going to go way out on a limb and say that it is the most diverting paper ever published in The Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine . The title is "" Observations of In-Utero Masturbation . "" ( Laughter ) Okay . Now on the left you can see the hand . That 's the big arrow . And the penis on the right . The hand hovering . And over here we have , in the words of radiologist Israel Meisner , "" The hand grasping the penis in a fashion resembling masturbation movements . "" Bear in mind this was an ultrasound . So it would have been moving images . Orgasm is a reflex of the autonomic nervous system . Now this is the part of the nervous system that deals with the things that we do n't consciously control . Like digestion , heart rate , sexual arousal . And the orgasm reflex can be triggered by a surprisingly broad range of input . Genital stimulation . Duh . But also Kinsey interviewed a woman who could be brought to orgasm by having someone stroke her eyebrow . People with spinal cord injuries , like parapligias , quadriplegias , will often develop a very very sensitive area right above the level of their injury . Wherever that is . There is such a thing as a knee orgasm , in the literature . I think the most curious one that I came across was a case report of a woman who had an orgasm every time she brushed her teeth . ( Laughter ) This was something in the complex sensory-motor action of brushing her teeth was triggering orgasm . And she went to a neurologist who was fascinated . He checked to see if it was something in the toothpaste . But no , it happened with any brand . They stimulated her gums with a toothpick , to see if that was doing it . No. It was the whole , you know , motion . And the amazing thing to me is that now you would think this woman would like have excellent oral hygiene . ( Laughter ) Sadly she -- this is what it said in the journal paper -- "" She believed that she was possessed by demons and switched to mouthwash for her oral care . "" It 's so sad . ( Laughter ) I interviewed , when I was working on the book , I interviewed a woman who can think herself to orgasm . She was part of a study at Rutgers University . You gotta love that . Rutgers . So I interviewed her in Oakland , in a sushi restaurant . And I said , "" So , could you do it right here ? "" And she said , "" Yeah , but I 'd rather finish my meal if you do n't mind . "" ( Laughter ) But afterwards she was kind enough to demonstrate on a bench outside . It was remarkable . It took about one minute . And I said to her , "" Are you just doing this all the time ? "" ( Laughter ) She said , "" No. Honestly when I get home I 'm usually too tired . "" ( Laughter ) She said that the last time she had done it was on the Disneyland tram . ( Laughter ) The headquarters for orgasm , along the spinal nerve , is something called the sacral nerve root . Which is back here . And if you trigger , if you stimulate with an electrode , the precise spot , you will trigger an orgasm . And it is a fact that you can trigger spinal reflexes in dead people . A certain kind of dead person , a beating-heart cadaver . Now this is somebody who is braindead , legally dead , definitely checked out , but is being kept alive on a respirator , so that their organs will be oxygenated for transplantation . Now in one of these braindead people , if you trigger the right spot you will see something every now and then . There is a reflex called the Lazarus reflex . And this is -- I 'll demonstrate as best I can , not being dead . It 's like this . You trigger the spot . The dead guy , or gal , goes ... like that . Very unsettling for people working in pathology labs . ( Laughter ) Now if you can trigger the Lazarus reflex in a dead person , why not the orgasm reflex ? I asked this question to a brain death expert , Stephanie Mann , who was foolish enough to return my emails . ( Laughter ) I said , "" So , could you concievably trigger an orgasm in a dead person ? "" She said , "" Yes , if the sacral nerve is being oxygenated . You conceivably could . "" Obviously it would n ' t be as much fun for the person . But it would be an orgasm -- ( Laughter ) nonetheless . I actually suggested to -- there is a researcher at the University of Alabama who does orgasm research . I said to her , "" You should do an experiment . You know ? You can get cadavers if you work at a university . "" I said , "" You should actually do this . "" She said , "" You get the human subjects review board approval for this one . "" ( Laughter ) According to 1930s marriage manual author , Theodoor Van de Velde , a slight seminal odor can be detected on the breath of a woman within about an hour after sexual intercourse . Theodore Van de Velde was something of a semen connoisseur . ( Laughter ) This is a guy writing a book , "" Ideal Marriage , "" you know . Very heavy hetero guy . But he wrote in this book , "" Ideal Marriage , "" he said that he could differentiate between the semen of a young man , which he said had a fresh , exhilarating smell , and the semen of mature men , whose semen smelled quote , "" Remarkably like that of the flowers of the Spanish chestnut . Sometimes quite freshly floral , and then again sometimes extremely pungent . "" ( Laughter ) Okay . 1999 , in the state of Israel , a man began hiccuping . And this was one of those cases that went on and on . He tried everything his friends suggested . Nothing seemed to help . Days went by . At a certain point , the man , still hiccuping , had sex with his wife . And lo and behold , the hiccups went away . He told his doctor , who published a case report in a Canadian medical journal under the title , "" Sexual Intercourse as a Potential Treatment for Intractable Hiccups . "" I love this article because at a certain point they suggested that unattached hiccupers could try masturbation . ( Laughter ) I love that because there is like a whole demographic . Unattached hiccupers . ( Laughter ) Married . Single . Unattached hiccuper . In the 1900s , early 1900s gynecologists , a lot of gynecologists believed that when a woman has an orgasm the contractions serve to suck the semen up through the cervix and sort of deliver it really quickly to the egg . Thereby upping the odds of conception . It was called the "" upsuck "" theory . ( Laughter ) If you go all the way back to Hippocrates , physicians believed that orgasm in women was not just helpful for conception , but necessary . Doctors back then were routinely telling men the importance of pleasuring their wives . Marriage manual author and semen sniffer Theodore Van de Velde -- ( Laughter ) has a line in his book . I loved this guy . I got a lot of mileage out of Theodore Van de Velde . He had this line in his book , that supposedly comes from the Habsburg Monarchy . Where there was an empress Maria Theresa , who was having trouble conceiving . And apparently the royal court physician said to her , "" I am of the opinion that the vulva of your most sacred majesty be titillated for some time prior to intercourse . "" ( Laughter ) It 's apparently , I do n't know , on the record somewhere . Masters and Johnson : now we 're moving forward to the 1950s . Masters and Johnson were upsuck skeptics . Which is also really fun to say . They did n't buy it . And they decided , being Masters and Johnson , that they would get to the bottom of it . They brought women into the lab . I think it was five women . And outfitted them with cervical caps containing artificial semen . And in the artificial semen was a radio-opaque substance , such that it would show up on an X-ray . This is the 1950s . Anyway these women sat in front of an X-ray device . And they masturbated . And Masters and Johnson looked to see if the semen was being sucked up . Did not find any evidence of upsuck . You may be wondering , "" How do you make artificial semen ? "" ( Laughter ) I have an answer for you . I have two answers . You can use flour and water , or cornstarch and water . I actually found three separate recipes in the literature . ( Laughter ) My favorite being the one that says -- you know , they have the ingredients listed , and then in a recipe it will say , for example , "" Yield : two dozen cupcakes . "" This one said , "" Yield : one ejaculate . "" ( Laughter ) There 's another way that orgasm might boost fertility . This one involves men . Sperm that sit around in the body for a week or more start to develop abnormalities that make them less effective at head banging their way into the egg . British sexologist Roy Levin has speculated that this is perhaps why men evolved to be such enthusiastic and frequent masturbators . He said , "" If I keep tossing myself off I get fresh sperm being made . "" Which I thought was an interesting idea , theory . So now you have an evolutionary excuse . ( Laughter ) Okay . ( Laughter ) Alrighty . There is considerable evidence for upsuck in the animal kingdom . Pigs , for instance . In Denmark , the Danish National Committee for Pig Production found out that if you sexually stimulate a sow while you artificially inseminate her , you will see a six-percent increase in the farrowing rate , which is the number of piglets produced . So they came up with this plan . This five-point stimulation plan for the sows . And they had the farmers -- there is posters they put in the barn , and they have a DVD . And I got a copy of this DVD . ( Laughter ) This is my unveiling . Because I am going to show you a clip . ( Laughter ) So uh , okay . Now here we go in to the -- la la la , off to work . It all looks very innocent . He 's going to be doing things with his hands that the boar would use his snout , lacking hands . Okay . ( Laughter ) This is it . The boar has a very odd courtship repertoire . ( Laughter ) This is to mimic the weight of the boar . ( Laughter ) You should know , the clitoris of the pig , inside the vagina . So this may be sort of titillating for her . Here we go . ( Laughter ) And the happy result . ( Applause ) I love this video . There is a point in this video , towards the beginning where they zoom in for a close up of his hand with his wedding ring , as if to say , "" It 's okay , it 's just his job . He really does like women . "" ( Laughter ) Okay . Now I said -- when I was in Denmark , my host was named Anne Marie . And I said , "" So why do n't you just stimulate the clitoris of the pig ? Why do n't you have the farmers do that ? That 's not one of your five steps . "" She said -- I have to read you what she said , because I love it . She said , "" It was a big hurdle just to get farmers to touch underneath the vulva . So we thought let's not mention the clitoris right now . "" ( Laughter ) Shy but ambitious pig farmers , however , can purchase a -- this is true -- a sow vibrator , that hangs on the sperm feeder tube to vibrate . Because , as I mentioned , the clitoris is inside the vagina . So possibly , you know , a little more arousing than it looks . And I also said to her , "" Now these sows . I mean , you may have noticed there , The sow does n ' t look to be in the throes of ecstasy . "" And she said , "" You ca n ' t make that conclusion . "" Because animals do n't register pain or pleasure on their faces , in the same way that we do . They tend to -- pigs , for example , are more like dogs . They use the upper half of the face . The ears are very expressive . So you 're not really sure what 's going on with the pig . Primates , on the other hand , we use our mouths more . This is the ejaculation face of the stump-tailed macaque . ( Laughter ) And , interestingly , this has been observed in female macaques . But only when mounting another female . ( Laughter ) Masters and Johnson , in the 1950s , they decided , okay , we 're going to figure out the entire human sexual response cycle . From arousal , all the way through orgasm , in men and women . Everything that happens in the human body . Okay , with women , a lot of this is happening inside . This did not stop Masters and Johnson . They developed an artificial coition machine . This is basically a penis camera on a motor . There is a phallus , clear acrylic phallus , with a camera and a light source , attached to a motor that is kind of going like this . And the woman would have sex with it . That is what they would do . Pretty amazing . Sadly , this device has been dismantled . This just kills me . Not because I wanted to use it . I wanted to see it . ( Laughter ) One fine day Alfred Kinsey decided to calculate the average distance traveled by ejaculated semen . This was not idle curiosity . Doctor Kinsey had heard -- and there was a theory kind of going around at the time , this being the 1940s , that the force with which semen is thrown against the cervix was a factor in fertility . Kinsey thought it was bunk . So he got to work . He got together in his lab 300 men , a measuring tape , and a movie camera . ( Laughter ) And in fact he found that in three quarters of the men the stuff just kind of slopped out . It was n ' t spurted or thrown or ejected under great force . However , the record holder landed just shy of the eight foot mark . Which is impressive . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Yes . Exactly . ( Laughter ) Sadly , he 's anonymous . His name is not mentioned . In his write up , in his write up of this experiment in his book , Kinsey wrote , "" Two sheets were laid down to protect the oriental carpets . "" ( Laughter ) Which is my second favorite line in the entire ouevre of Alfred Kinsey . My favorite being , "" Cheese crumbs spread before a pair of copulating rats will distract the female , but not the male . "" ( Laughter ) Thank you very much . ( Applause ) Thanks ! </content"	Information/Explanation
1660	"The Slippery Rock Sliders were formed for the 2007 season to ensure an even number of teams with the Frontier League's addition of the Southern Illinois Miners . The Sliders played 32 home games at Jack Critchfield Park in Slippery Rock , Pennsylvania , with the remaining 64 played on the road . For the 2008 season , the Sliders became a traveling team , playing all of their games on the road under the geographical moniker , Midwest . The Sliders ' 2009 season began on May 29 , at Eastern Michigan University ' s Oestrike Stadium located in Ypsilanti , Michigan . The Sliders played strong - a 33-33 record after 66 games . However , countless injuries and the sale of top starting pitching led to a late-season slump . Pitcher James Albury was sold to the Chicago White Sox and pitcher Caleb Graham was sold to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim . The Sliders had 42 scheduled home dates with 54 scheduled road dates . The Oakland County Cruisers were scheduled move into Diamond at The Summit on July 16 , 2010 after playing three three-game series ( nine games total ) at Oestrike Stadium during the first half of the 2010 Frontier League season , however , the organization was unable to obtain funding in time for this to occur . The Cruisers played 78 of its 96 regular-season games on the road . The Cruisers led the Frontier League East for better than two months . However , the high amount of road games ( 30 more than any other team ) and the solid play of the Windy City Thunderbolts and Traverse City Beach Bums down the stretch led to a third-place finish - only four games out . Interim Manager Gera Alvarez won 2010 Frontier League Manager of the Year . Pitcher P.J. Zocchi and first baseman Joash Brodin were named to the Frontier League End-of-Year All-Star Team . Zocchi tied the Frontier League record for saves in a season with 26 ( matched Matt Petty of the Windy City Thunderbolts in 2007 ) and was named Frontier League Relief Pitcher of the Year . Construction on Diamond at The Summit was supposed to begin in October 2010 with the stadium completed in June 2011 . The complex would hold approximately 4,000 fans and function as a year-sound sports and entertainment complex in Waterford Township . After a groundbreaking ceremony with officials of Waterford Township , the area still sits as a vacant parking lot to the adjoining and vacant Summit Place Mall . A small sign touting the construction project sits on the corner of two shopping mall "" streets "" with fading color in a sea of weeds . The Sliders were Ypsilanti's first pro baseball team in nearly a century , since they were awarded a franchise in the Class D Border League in 1913 . The Border League was sometimes called a "" trolley league "" because its six franchises ( in southeastern Michigan and Ontario , Canada ) were located on the interurban lines ; they played a limited schedule of games , primarily on weekends . Managed by former major-leaguer Ducky Pearce , the unnamed Ypsilanti team took the pennant with a 24-10 record , then folded with the rest of the league . Ypsilanti thus held the distinction of being one of the few cities to win a championship in its only season hosting a pro ballclub . College baseball remains popular in Ypsilanti : Eastern Michigan University won a NAIA national championship in 1971 and made it all the way to the championship game of the NCAA College World Series in 1976 before losing to Arizona . The Hurons ( now Eagles ) remain the last northern school to play for the CWS title ."	Information/Explanation
1361	"Business continuity plans must address massive air travel shutdown When the ash cloud from Iceland's Eyjafjallajökull volcano shut down air travel across Europe and beyond , the business continuity plans of stranded British comedian John Cleese included hiring a Mercedes cab and forking over the roughly $ 5 , 000 fare For many a business continuity manager , however , the punch line was probably a good deal less existential . Losses for the airlines alone surpassed $ 1 billion . That figure does not include the toll on organizations crippled by their inability to ship or receive materials by air -- or the effect on business from the stranding of employees . "" What we really had here was asymmetrical reliance on one or two modes of transportation , oceangoing vehicles and air travel , "" said business continuity specialist Donald Byrne , managing director of consulting firm North River Solutions Inc. "" The trains were n't disrupted , and the bus lines and the automobiles were not disrupted . But you ca n't use those across the Atlantic Ocean . "" Now that the dust has settled , experts like Byrne are urging business continuity managers -- including those at businesses not affected by the ash cloud -- to use the event as a teachable moment while the chaos it caused is still relatively fresh in people's minds . For starters , the volcanic eruption should serve as a sober reminder that even rare events with limited physical destructiveness can cause widespread chaos , said Roberta Witty , a business continuity analyst at Gartner Inc. The eruption of Eyjafjallajökull resulted in the largest-ever interruption of global air travel . Nor may that event be so rare . Historical data shows that when Eyjafjallajökull erupts , the neighboring , much larger Katla volcano follows suit . The event pointed up other deficiencies in business continuity plans besides a lack of air travel contingency plans , however . The ash cloud did not disrupt communication channels , Witty said , and that should have allowed businesses to respond constructively to employees , although many did not . In a report published April 23 , Witty and her Gartner colleagues offered advice on ways to mitigate the impact of the next large-scale transportation disruption . Here are four takeaways , with comments from other business continuity experts : Workforce continuity : Managing and communicating with the workforce during a crisis is the first job of a business continuity manager . In the air travel disruption caused by the erupting Icelandic volcano , the Gartner report highlighted two IT systems that can enhance business continuity plans : A centralized online travel service system that gives business continuity planners a quick inventory of all employees in transit However , even the most creative and adaptable travel firms are quickly overwhelmed with requests in major travel disruptions , Witty pointed out . Therefore , it is incumbent on an organization's HR department to reach out to "" each and every worker "" to help with alternative plans , such as hiring buses to ferry stranded employees . A business process management ( BPM ) system that can be used to identify the critical work projects affected by the absent workforce , the status of the projects and which tasks can be transferred to other employees Such information as the "" chain of command , workforce succession and backup personnel needed to continue business during any unexpected absence "" could be housed in the BPM repository , which includes organizational models and roles , the Gartner report advised . The volcanic eruption underscores the need for succession planning , said Paul Kirvan , a business continuity expert based in New Jersey . "" If the CEO of a company is stranded in an airport , it is conceivable that he or she would not be able to do that much , "" he said . Therefore , be sure to have a plan that accounts for fulfilling the duties of those who are stranded , he added . Supply chain and customer service : The hallmark of lean supply chains is just-in-time deliveries of inventory . When those goods are transported by air , the impact on the supply chain -- from flight delays and cancellations -- is obviously huge . Some automobile manufacturers in Europe shut down after only five days , because of volcanic dust-related supply chain disruptions , according to the Gartner report . The volcanic disruption also marked the first time that FedEx Corp. and United Parcel Service Inc. said they could not honor overnight delivery service-level agreements for Europe . This event serves to remind organizations that supply chain risk-management contracts need to be reviewed for elements that could cause service disruptions : For example , does the contract rely on on-site vendor resources who are now unable to access your facility because of travel disruptions ? Can the work be shifted to another geographic location ? Keeping customers informed about delays is critical ; so is offering to help if your organization is not affected by the crisis . Gartner also recommends that business continuity managers consider ways their organizations can turn lemons into lemonade -- literally -- by offering , for example , to donate perishable goods , such as fruit , to charities or local processors . Managers should use the loss data from the air travel shutdown to drive home the need for business continuity planning , said North River Solutions' Byrne . "" Certainly the supply chain issue is a huge issue , and is one of the best ways to come up with financial justification for why you should engage in preparedness and readiness planning , "" he said . Remote access , telepresence : One of the foremost questions for today's business continuity managers should be how much of their organization's business can be managed remotely . Stranded business travelers likely will have the tools to connect to work through wireless devices and plug-in laptops . Staff stranded while on vacation will have fewer resources , especially those who consider it a badge of honor to unplug while they 're on holiday . The Iceland volcanic eruption points out the need for key executives to take their hardware with them on vacation , the Gartner report said . At minimum , "" traveling executives should be equipped with at least some remote work capability ... based on smartphones and wireless access into the corporate VPN , "" the report advised . The corporate network must be able to handle such communications , and handle them securely . While telepresence theoretically can keep stranded travelers in business -- or preclude the need for them to travel in the first place -- the technology is n't readily available at enough locations . "" If you have stranded staff , then the chances of them getting to a telepresence room you can use are slim , "" the Gartner report stated . H1N1 planning to the rescue : In fact , what really should have come in handy in a crisis like the eruption of Eyjafjallajökull is the business continuity and communications planning that many organizations did for the H1N1 influenza crisis , Kirvan said . "" This situation is kind of analogous to a pandemic , because in a pandemic you really are n't concerned about losing technology or buildings , but loss of people , "" he said . "" So , in a situation like this one , take another look at your pandemic plan , pull out the appropriate pieces and fire those up . "" At the end of the day , the hundreds of thousands of threats , even unusual ones like volcanic eruptions , will affect a business in probably eight to 10 ways that need to be addressed by business continuity plans , North River Solutions' Byrne said . "" [ Threats ] disrupt your service , they disrupt your transportation , they deny you access to your facilities , they cause a lack of access to your staff , and so on , "" Bryne said . "" That 's really what you need to protect yourself against , those eight to 10 categories , whether it is from a flock of birds flying into the engine of your plane or a volcano exploding . """	Instruction
881	In the last year , the British Red Cross has reclaimed over £ 5 . 4 million in Gift Aid tax . Please help us to make this figure even bigger . Commit to making a regular gift today and offer a secure and brighter future for people in crisis , both in the UK and overseas . Money is the lifeblood of rapid response . It can be instantly transferred and converted into whatever is most needed , anywhere in the world .	Promotion
205	"Nineteenth session * Nairobi , 5 - 9 May 2003 Item 4 of the provisional agenda ** Activities of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme : progress report Report of the Executive Director Addendum World Summit on Sustainable Development Introduction The World Summit on Sustainable Development ( Johannesburg , 26 August - 4 September 2002 ) marked the culmination of a process that had started in early 2001 with progress reports prepared by United Nations system task managers on the implementation of Agenda 21 ( the reports were compiled by the end of 2001 into a formal report of the Secretary-General - Implementing Agenda 21 : E / CN . 17 / 2002 / PC . 2 / 7 ) and that had involved four meetings of the Commission on Sustainable Development acting as the preparatory committee for the Summit . The Summit itself which was presided by President T. Mbeki of South Africa , received 21,000 registered participants ( 9,000 government delegations including 104 heads of State and numerous ministers ; 8,000 representatives of intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations ; and 4,000 journalists ) and adopted two negotiated documents : ( a ) The Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ; 1 ( b ) The Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development . 2 In addition to the plenary and negotiation sessions as well as the high-level round-table discussions , the Summit provided a framework for exhibitions and over 500 side and parallel events at various sites . General world opinion of the negotiated results of the Summit and its preparatory process ( type one outcomes ) was not very positive for the following reasons : The negotiated texts barely confirm previous agreements , and , with very few exceptions , do not commit Governments to new goals , targets and time frames ( one such rare exception is the target to halve the number of people without access to sanitation by 2015 , but this target is only a step forward from the related millennium development goal on drinking water , adopted two years ago ) ; There is general disappointment over the lack of implementation of Agenda 21 and related international agreements with calls for postponement of any future summits until Governments have demonstrated a willingness and ability to implement agreements already reached . There were some positive views of the Summit with regard to the awareness-raising on the social , economic and environmental dimensions of sustainable development and the broader involvement of both non-governmental organizations and the business community in partnerships with Governments and intergovernmental organizations through tangible implementation initiatives ( type two outcomes ) . Outcomes for the United Nations Human Settlements Programme The United Nations Human Settlements Programme ( UN-HABITAT ) , with its own special concerns and task-manager responsibilities for chapters 7 , 21 and 28 of Agenda 21 ( sustainable settlements , waste and sanitation , local authorities ) , has participated actively in the Summit process . Its normative and operational mandate is reflected in the type one outcome of the Summit ( negotiated text ) . The Plan of Implementation contains important references to UN-HABITAT's work in the sections on poverty eradication , changing unsustainable patterns of consumption and production , protecting and managing the natural resource base of economic and social development , sustainable development in Africa , means of implementation , and institutional framework for sustainable development . The following commitments expressed in the Plan are of special interest : Halve the number of people without access to drinking water and sanitation by 2015 ( paragraph 7 ( a )) ; Improve the lives of 100 million slum dwellers by 2020 , with respect to land , adequate shelter and the role of local authorities ( paragraph 11 ) ; Support African countries in their efforts to implement the Habitat Agenda and the Istanbul Declaration , in the areas of sustainable urbanization , adequate shelter , basic services , governance systems in cities and other human settlements , and national or local institutional capacities ( paragraph 71 ) ; Strengthen UN-HABITAT ( jointly with the United Nations Environment Programme ( UNEP ) , the United Nations Development Programme ( UNDP ) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ( UNCTAD ) in its role to build capacities at all levels for implementing Agenda 21 ; Enhance the role of local authorities and partnerships involving local authorities and other levels of government as called for in the Habitat Agenda ( Paragraph 167 ) . Furthermore , there are numerous other references relevant to UN-HABITAT's work , including the following : transport ( para . 21 ) ; waste management ( para . 22 ) ; water resource management ( paras . 26 and 28 ) ; coastal area management and land-based marine pollution ( paras . 30 and 32 ) ; disaster management ( paras . 37 and 64 ) ; lead pollution ( para . 7 ) ; capacity-building in the geographic information system , indicators , planning and management methodologies ( para . 136 ) ; and good governance and broad-based decision-making ( paras . 138 and 141 ) . The Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development is a political statement agreed at the highest level and is not meant to repeat the much more detailed Plan of Implementation . However , even at this general policy level , the Declaration contains explicit reference to UN-HABITAT's areas of responsibility , placing them at the top of the agenda , effectively updating the water and sanitation , energy , health , agriculture and biodiversity ( WEHAB ) list of priorities : "" 18 . We welcome the focus of the Johannesburg Summit on the indivisibility of human dignity and are resolved , through decisions on targets , timetables and partnerships , to speedily increase access to such basic requirements as clean water , sanitation , adequate shelter , energy , health care , food security and the protection of biodiversity . "" The responsibilities of UN-HABITAT are also well reflected in the type two outcome of the Summit ( partnership implementation commitments ) . The Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization , developed by UN-HABITAT with more than 40 Habitat Agenda partners and posted on the official World Summit web site , was formally announced by the Executive Director in her plenary address , and was launched in a half-day "" corporate event "" involving the full range of partners . The Coalition has been praised by partners as a coherent cluster of mutually supportive initiatives linked by the common conceptual framework of sustainable urbanization . At the same time , individual components of the Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization have gained prominence in their own rights . Among them , and most importantly , the Water for Asian Cities partnership between UN-HABITAT , the Asian Development Bank , the Government of the Netherlands , and Governments of Asian countries , has received much attention . With its agreed $ 10 million in grants and $ 500 million in fast-track credit , the initiative is expected to demonstrate the complementarity between capacity-building and lending operations , between the United Nations and development finance institutions . Other noteworthy components of the Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization include close operational partnerships with global associations of local authorities ( individual or through the World Association of Cities and Local Authorities Coordination - WACLAC ) for strengthening local capacities for sustainable urbanization . These partnerships , also involving partner organizations such as UNEP , the United Nations Institute for Training and Research ( UNITAR ) , the International Labour Organization ( ILO ) , the United Nations Volunteers ( UNV ) programme and the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , focus on thematic issues such as HIV-AIDS , or on modalities for capacity development such as demonstration and replication , training , best practices , and city-to-city cooperation . Prominent among these partnerships is the next phase of the Sustainable Cities Programme with funding from the Government of the Netherlands and the Partnership for Local Capacity Development a result of joint work on city-to-city cooperation in which the international associations of local authorities place high expectations . Activities of UN-HABITAT in Johannesburg A focused and coherent message was prepared and agreed with Habitat Agenda partners from the beginning of UN-HABITAT's preparations for the Summit in early 2002 . This message was consistently promoted by all . It has the following two dimensions that parallel the two types of interrelated outcomes expected from the overall Summit process ( i . e . , type one , negotiated norms and policies ; and type two , partnership implementation commitments ) : Sustainable urbanization ( policy framework ) : There will be no sustainable development without sustainable urbanization Local capacities are key for sustainable urbanization . Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization ( 11 partnership implementation commitments ) : Millennium Cities Partnership Developing Local Capacities for Global Agendas Partnership for Local Capacity Development Model City-to-City Cooperation Partnerships Demonstrating Local Environmental Planning and Management National Capacities for Upscaling Local Agenda 21 Demonstrations Local Capacity-building and Training for Sustainable Urbanization Learning From Best Practices , Good Policies and Enabling Legislation in Support of Sustainable Urbanization Water for Asian Cities Partnership for Sustainable African Cities Partnership for Managing HIV / AIDS at the Local Level . Over the preparatory period , UN-HABITAT and its partners were relatively successful in ensuring that the key messages on sustainable urbanization and the key thematic areas addressed by the Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization would be reflected in the negotiated text of the Summit . This political work resulted in the UN-HABITAT related text mentioned in section A above , and was completed by the end of the fourth session of the preparatory committee in Bali . The remaining negotiations held in Johannesburg did not for the most part deal with text directly related to the mandate of UN-HABITAT - with the important exception of the political declaration , which was drafted from scratch in Johannesburg . The extraordinary achievement of getting "" adequate shelter "" mentioned as a priority concern in the Johannesburg Declaration was due to the constructive relationship between the Executive Director and her team , members of the Committee of Permanent Representatives to UN-HABITAT and concerned government representatives . During the 10 days of the World Summit itself , the work of the UN-HABITAT secretariat focused primarily on delivering the UN-HABITAT message and making best use of a variety of special opportunities presented by the Summit . These opportunities included plenary statements by the Executive Director , side and parallel events organized by UN-HABITAT , events organized by UN-HABITAT partners , press conferences , book launches , exhibitions , bilateral meetings , etc. Those events included the following : The Executive Director addressed close to 20 events during the 10-day Summit . This included two statements in the plenary and participation in a - level round table with Heads of State ; The Executive Director gave two official press briefings and close to 20 one-on-one interviews ; UN-HABITAT organized with various partners a dozen side and parallel events including : A "" corporate event "" on the Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization ; A partnership event on Sustainable African Cities ; Several partnership events on Water for Cities ; A meeting of the United Nations Advisory Committee of Local Authorities ( UNACLA ) ; UN-HABITAT organized a major exhibition on water and sanitation ; UN-HABITAT launched three publications : Sustainable Urbanization : Achieving Agenda 21 ( based on the outcome of the first World Urban Forum , in cooperation with the British Department for International Development ( DFID ) , providing the unifying framework for the Coalition , 1000 copies distributed in Johannesburg and 2000 copies distributed worldwide ) ; Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization : Partnership Commitments for Implementing Agenda 21 ( prepared with more than 40 Habitat Agenda partners , following the first World Urban Forum , 500 copies distributed at the Summit , 500 copies distributed worldwide ) ; Sustainable Urbanization : Bridging the Brown and the Green Agendas ( 260 pages , in cooperation with DFID and the Development Planning Unit ) ; UN-HABITAT staff participated in various roles - chairperson , keynote speaker or speaker - in numerous events organized by partners such as the following : Several meetings held in the context of the local government session organized by the International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives ( ICLEI ) ; An event organized by the Global Lead Network ; An official side event organized by UNITAR ; and A WHO launch of the "" Healthy Environment for Children "" programme . C. Follow-up Only time will tell whether the World Summit has been a real success . As far as UN-HABITAT is concerned , initial assessment indicates that the Habitat Agenda has fared quite well in the Summit process , considering the generally acknowledged limitations of this process . UN-HABITAT made good use of the worldwide momentum created by the process , the worldwide sense of urgency of the need to address sustainable development in all its dimensions , and the heightened spirit of partnership that emerged . Accordingly , UN-HABITAT and its partners successfully used the process to make significant progress in three areas : There is sharper focus on what must be done in human settlement policies to achieve sustainable development . This has resulted in the policy framework of sustainable urbanization developed , agreed , published , and applied to partnership implementation agreements ; There has been a building of awareness of the important role of cities and other human settlements for sustainable development . This has resulted in enhanced recognition of the issue globally and among Habitat Agenda partners who are using sustainable urbanization as a unifying framework for joint normative and operational activities ; The momentum , heightened interest in sustainable development and partnership spirit have led to the development of implementation initiatives , complete with concrete work plans , agreed responsibilities and funding commitments . This has resulted in the Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization and its component initiatives ( e . g . , the Water for Asian Cities programme ) . UN-HABITAT's participation in the World Summit was in keeping with the plan developed , refined and implemented over the eight months preparatory period in the context of close and systematic collaboration among UN-HABITAT's senior management and professional staff , the Committee of Permanent Representatives to UN-HABITAT , and the full range of Habitat Agenda partners . Follow-up , in broad terms , is part of a similar broad based plan with three basic components : Follow-up on the Summit's political outcome for UN-HABITAT , especially the recognition of "" adequate shelter "" as a thematic priority and "" framework for action "" at par with the other WEHAB areas ( paragraph 18 of the Johannesburg Declaration ) ; Administrative and managerial follow-up to enable UN-HABITAT fulfil its Summit mandates and commitments , especially with respect to institutional structures and capacities ; and Operational follow-up , including the further development and implementation of the Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization and its component initiatives . With regard to the political follow-up , the outcome of the Summit was reported to the UN-HABITAT Committee of Permanent Representatives one week after the Johannesburg event . The Committee in turn communicated to the Permanent Representatives in New York the significance of including , in paragraph 18 of the political declaration , adequate shelter alongside the other WEHAB thematic priority areas . In its communication , the Committee suggested specific language for all General Assembly resolutions on UN-HABITAT that would ensure recognition of the importance of urbanization issues such as adequate shelter , water and sanitation for the achievement of sustainable development . The Executive Director also took up the issue in her speech to the fifty seventh session of the General Assembly on UN-HABITAT and the secretariat addressed the issue in the Summit follow-up arrangements and mechanisms such as the open-ended working group established by the High-level Committee on Programmes and the task group formed within the programme group of the United Nations Development Group ( UNDG ) . Further , UN-HABITAT has used the Summit outcome to update its work under the millennium development goals , such as Target 10 on sustainable access to drinking water . With regard to the administrative and managerial follow-up , to facilitate UN-HABITAT's Summit mandates and commitments , the Executive Director has taken important decisions , including the following : Signing of a memorandum of understanding with UNDP to place UN-HABITAT officers in UNDP country offices to ensure that issues of slum upgrading , adequate shelter and sustainable urbanization will be better incorporated and coordinated in macro-economic planning and local investment frameworks such as the poverty reduction strategy papers and the country development frameworks ; Establishment of a new subprogramme in the UN-HABITAT work programme to revive the Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation as per General Assembly resolution 56 / 206 of 21 December 2001 . Donors have provided grants to support preparatory activities ; Establishment of a fully fledged Water , Sanitation and Infrastructure Branch , with eight professionals , to rise to the challenge of delivering the water and sanitation targets agreed in Johannesburg ; Creation of a Water and Sanitation Trust Fund , with an initial UN-HABITAT investment of $ 1 million , to make available funds that can be quickly disbursed in the area of water and sanitation . With regard to the operational follow-up , the component initiatives of the Coalition for Sustainable Urbanization are being developed further and implemented . New partners and new initiatives are joining the Coalition . Synergy and cohesion under the unifying framework of Sustainable Urbanization will be reviewed in the context of the World Urban Forum . Through this the concept of Sustainable Urbanization is being further developed enabling UN-HABITAT and its partners to enhance over time their important contribution to socially , economically , and environmentally sustainable development . Set out below are some examples : Developing Local Capacities for Global Agendas - UN-HABITAT and UNEP are continuing to develop local capacities for a two-way link between local development priorities and opportunities , and the global norms established in UN-HABITAT's global campaigns ( e . g . , participation , accountability , security ) and UNEP's environmental conventions ( e . g . climate change , land-based marine pollution , biodiversity ) . Strategies are being developed with the international local government community ( through WACLAC and UNACLA ) in international meetings such as the World Urban Forum and the annual partners meeting of the Sustainable Cities Programme ; Partnership for Local Capacity Development - This partnership implementation commitment is the primary joint instrument of UN-HABITAT and the international local government community ( through WACLAC and UNACLA ) to promote local capacity development . It builds on the joint achievements in city-to-city cooperation in response to resolutions 18 / 10 and 18 / 11 of the Commission on Human Settlements that were endorsed at the special session of the General Assembly for an overall review and appraisal of the implementation of the Habitat Agenda , the World Urban Forum and the local government session of the World Summit . City-to-city cooperation was the theme of the 2002 World Habitat Day and will be addressed at the nineteenth Governing Council in the context of dialogue on decentralization and local authorities development ; Demonstrating Local Environmental Planning and Management - Major donors are now committed to supporting the new phase of the joint UN-HABITAT / UNEP Sustainable Cities Programme , designed to broaden environmental planning and management demonstrations undertaken by local authorities and their local partners . Through expanded and more systematic collaboration with related international initiatives such as the UNDP Public-Private Partnership for the Urban Environment and the International Labour Organization ( ILO ) Advisory Support Information Services and Training , the Programme is addressing new issues such as sustainable mobility and improved basic urban services for the poor and marginalized groups ; National Capacities for Upscaling Local Agenda 21 Demonstrations - Based on the large number of joint local Agenda 21 demonstrations , UN-HABITAT and UNEP are now documenting lessons of experience in collaboration with local and central governments and national urban training institutions . This is aimed at building national capacities for effectively replicating the demonstration activities and for multiplying the positive impact of the investments made in connection with these demonstrations ; Learning from Best Practices , Good Policies and Enabling Legislation in Support of Sustainable Urbanzation - Two new partners have joined this partnership , ComHabitat and the Universal Forum of Cultures - Barcelona 2004 . ComHabitat increases the outreach of the partnership to policy makers and grassroots leaders in 54 Commonwealth countries while the Universal Forum on Cultures - Barcelona 2004 help identify and document new practices and emerging policy responses , offering new opportunities for bringing lessons learned to the attention of the general public ; Water for Asian Cities - This partnership will be launched in March 2003 in Osaka ; Partnership for Sustainable African Cities - This partnership promotes the sharing of experience and know-how for broad-based planning and management of African cities . Following its launch at the World Summit , sustainable urbanization has been included in the New Partnership for African Development ( NEPAD ) with UN-HABITAT as the task manager . A concrete follow-up to the Johannesburg commitments at the national level was the launch of the South Africa Cities Network , on the 2002 World Habitat Day . To further operationalize the programme , preparations are underway to convene a ministerial meeting during the nineteenth Governing Council ; Partnership for Managing HIV / AIDS at the Local Level - Adequate shelter for HIV / AIDS orphans is being promoted by a Rockefeller Foundation - UN-HABITAT partnership . UNDP and UN-HABITAT have launched a new Urban Management Programme partnership on HIV / AIDS in eight selected cities throughout the world . There is also a new partnership with SAfAIDS ( Southern Africa AIDS Information and Dissemination Services , Harare ) in Blantyre , Malawi , and with UN-AMICAALL ( Alliance of Mayors Initiatives for Community Action on Aids at the Local Level ) for the launch of national chapters of the Alliance of Mayors on HIV / AIDS in Kenya and Malawi ; Weihai Conference on Sustainable Urbanization Strategies - This initiative of UN-HABITAT , the Chinese Ministry of Construction and the city of Weihai is a direct follow-up to the Summit and will support international exchange of experiences on sustainable urbanization strategies , including the implementation of the Water for Asian cities programme . It will take place in September 2003 ; Future meetings of the World Urban Forum in Europe , America and Asia - The World Urban Forum has an important role to play in the follow-up to the Summit by reviewing progress of the partnership initiatives and ensuring synergy and cohesion under the unifying framework of Sustainable urbanization . The World Urban Forum will be held once every two years . The first meeting of the Forum was held in Africa ( Nairobi , 2002 ) , the second will be held in Europe ( Barcelona , 2004 ) , the third in America ( Vancouver , 2006 ) , and discussions are under way for holding the fourth in Asia . * In its resolution 56 / 206 of 21 December 2001 , the General Assembly transformed the Commission on Human Settlements into the Governing Council of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme ( UN-HABITAT ) , a subsidiary organ of the General Assembly . This session has been designated as the nineteenth instead of the first session of the Governing Council to signify the continuity and relationship between the Governing Council and the Commission on Human Settlements . HS / GC / 19 / 2 / Add . 2 HS / GC / 19 / 2 / Add . 2 1 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development , Johannesburg , South Africa , 26 August - 4 September 2002 ( United Nations publication , Sales No. E. 03 . II . A. 1 ) chap . I , resolution 2 , annex . 2 Ibid. resolution 1 , annex ."	Information/Explanation
652	As a Member of Parliament I help people to speak up . I go to college 3 days a week and also help out with the St John's Ambulance . In my spare time I use the Gym at the Romford YMCA , I like visiting my family and listening to all kinds of music . At weekends I like to go horse-riding and when I have a spare moment I like to play computer games ! If you would like to contact me you can send me an	Opinion/Argumentation
623	I had mini toast , hot chocolate and orange juice . I had a nose bleed - so when I got back I just had some bread . I had a roll for breakfast . I had some ' cornflakes ' . Cold and brisk . It was sunny all day with beautiful skies . Monte Bianco We ALL skied down here Monte Cervino ( The Matterhorn ) TODAY'S LESSON Today we were practising rising and falling . We all went up to the top of the mountain . We went down the steep hill and round a huge mountain . It was a lot better than yesterday and I am now SPEEDY GONZALES on the slopes . I learned to parallel turn and went from the top to the bottom of the mountain ! ( Black run ) It was EXCELLENT . I was put into a beginner group , but I learned MUCH more and my ski instructor is very nice , so I really enjoyed my day . I learned how to go down a big hill with control . I am really proud of myself . Today I went from the top of the mountain . It was really fun because we all went really fast . When we were up there it looked like we were on top of the world because it was so high . I also want to write about how wonderfully , greatly I skied with the poles . It was good because we went in the gondola , but the bad thing was you had to stand and get crushed . We went on loads of red runs . It was even better than yesterday . I am really proud of myself . I went down the hill that I swore I would not go down ! I did n't fall once today . I was scared at first at the big hill , but I did fine . WHAT I HAD FOR LUNCH Pizza , it was beautiful . Toastie , it was huge . Hot dog . EVENING MEAL We had an Italian dessert which was a sort of vanilla jelly with chocolate . Our food tonight was n't half bad . Pasta , beef , potatoes and a chocolate dessert . Pasta , lamb , jelly thing . Potatoes and some mysterious animal . EVENING ACTIVITY I went bowling and I won . I was reasonably good at bowling . ( That 's possibly over-rating it ) I scored a half strike and our team came third . Bowling . It was sooooooo good .	Opinion/Argumentation
1503	Rabbits are social animals and should therefore preferably be kept in pairs or groups , ideally reared together from birth . When you get a new rabbit or a pair of rabbits together , it is wise to get one , or ideally both , of the rabbits neutered . If opposite gender rabbits are kept together with no intention of breeding then one or both will need to be neutered from 4 months old . Watch for the male's testicles to descend from 3 months old and separate the rabbits immediately this is seen , keeping them in sight and sound of each other . At Wendover Heights Veterinary Centre , our vets and nurses are experienced with rabbit anaesthesia and surgery , and we will be happy to discuss with you what having your rabbit neutered involves . Reasons for spaying Does : prevention of pregnancy if kept with male prevention of uterine cancer ( some statistics suggest as many as 80 % of entire does may develop uterine cancer over 5 years of age ) to eliminate aggression which may develop at puberty to eliminate false pregnancy to prevent spraying if kept indoors The best age is 5-6 months old . Reasons for castrating Bucks : to prevent pregnancy if kept with a Doe to reduce aggression to prevent spraying if kept indoors The best age is as soon as the testicles descend into the scrotum , around 4 months old . Remember that Bucks may still be fertile for about a month after castration . Anaesthetic considerations : It is generally appreciated that anaesthetics in rabbits and small mammals are higher risk than many other animals , and unfortunately have a higher rate of anaesthetic deaths compared to dogs and cats . Although this risk is still very small , it is enough to warrant a careful cost-benefit analysis for each procedure . The reasons for this increased risk are as follows : Rabbits , as prey animals , are notorious for hiding signs of disease . For example , there may be pre-existing pneumonia with substantial lung disease without the rabbit ever having shown clinical signs . In combination with the rabbit 's particularly narrow airways this can produce breathing difficulties under anaesthesia . With outdoor rabbits , observation may not be as good as it could be , and so early signs of illness may be missed Rabbits are particularly susceptible to stress and the huge surge of adrenaline they produce when stressed can affect the heart . Having said this , rabbit anaesthesia is safer than it has ever been before , with improved knowledge and skill and state-of-the-art anaesthetics . Our vets and nurses are very experienced and confident in anaesthetising small mammals , using the very best in anaesthetic drugs . For many procedures , where possible , we will place a tube into the airway to allow better oxygen supplementation ( compared to using a face mask ) . Very often the procedure recommended will greatly improve the animal's quality of life or even save it , making the procedure more than justified . Please note that there is no need to withhold food or water prior to surgery as rabbits do not easily vomit , and will continue to eat their faecal pellets ( caecotrophs ) through the night anyway . In fact , withholding water would be detrimental to the animal's condition . Sexing rabbits over 12 weeks old is simple as the buck's testicles descend visibly into the scrotum and the penis can be extruded . Sexing of younger rabbits is notoriously difficult and you may need expert help , and preferably several littermates for comparison ! Females have a pointed genital opening closer to the anus , and males , a more rounded orifice further away . Sexual maturity occurs between 3 – 10 months of age with smaller breeds earlier . Breeding should not be attempted except by experienced breeders , as there are lots of possible complications . Please bear in mind before breeding that there are hundreds of rabbits in overflowing rescue centres , including baby rabbits , that need homes . The doe has a period of receptivity to the buck every 5 days from January to June , which may not be obvious . Rabbits are induced ovulators ( meaning they ovulate only after mating ) with a gestation ( pregnancy length ) of 32 days . The buck should be removed towards the end of gestation as the doe can be fertile immediately after giving birth . Sometimes rabbits can have a false pregnancy after an infertile mating or even from being mounted by other does . She will pull fur from her dewlap ( the lump under her neck ) for about 15 days to line an imaginary nest .	Information/Explanation
770	• Image processing techniques provide new insight to medical image diagnosis , operation planning and surgery . • Determining the size and shape of objects gives information on the progress of disease and effectiveness of treatment . • Segmentation is clinically important : - Volume estimation , classification , or visualization of objects - accuracy requirements and the variety of shapes and scales of objects present • MRI Brain images have become an increasing area of interest : – Detailed cross-sectional soft-tissues , such as white matter , grey matter , cerebrospinal fluid , and other types of tissues ( tumour , multiple sclerosis ) • Detection of anatomical structures in Tissue characterization is becoming difficult : – To label complex structures with complicated shapes of different tissues – Unpredictable ROIs in the presence of noise , appearing at different spatial scales or a single object , which contains components at different spatial scales	Information/Explanation
1354	10 . DRY CLEANERS Dry cleaners have to perform many duties such as they have to firstly sort the garments according to the color and then hang them accordingly . Then they have to look out for stains in the garments and have to perform stain removal techniques suiting the type and nature of the stain . They have to then perform dry cleaning and wet cleaning of the clothes without damaging or destroying the garment . Knowledge of operating the machines is essential . They finally have to iron the garment with care . They have to perform all these tasks as per the instructions given by the customers and also have to maintain the standards of their company . Customer satisfaction is very important in this job . Even after doing so much of hard work , they get very little salary . 9 . AMUSEMENT PARK ATTENDANTS Duties and responsibilities of amusement park attendants require attentiveness as even a small mistake can lead to big consequences . They have to make people aware of the rules and regulations of the rides , so that people enjoy the rides safely . They have to provide sports equipment to the people and have to maintain the record of all the sports equipment supplied . Basically , an amusement park attendant must have knowledge about the public security and safety and must deliver customer services with great quality and customer satisfaction . So , an amusement park attendant has to perform a lot of physical and as well as have to take care of our safety and most importantly have to make our visit to a recreational park enjoyable and memorable . But , the outcome that is the income after applying a lot of hard work is very less and thus this job is one among the lowest paid jobs . 8 . RESTAURANT HOSTESSES Since , the first person we interact with , when we enter a restaurant is a restaurant hostess , so it makes this job a quite important one as the behavior and way of treating the guests by the restaurant hostess will determines the popularity of the restaurant . Restaurant hostess represents the overall staff and service of the whole restaurant . Basically , her behavior gives an indication of the overall hospitality . It is very important , that the hostess , regardless of any circumstances have to be polite to the guests . She has to keep the record of the waiting list of the guests , have to book reservations , attend the phone calls , monitors the open tables and have to make the guests seated according to the estimated waiting times of the arriving guests and then have to take then give the responsibility of the guests to the food server . All these duties , though seems very simple but requires patience and dealing with different people having different temperament . But , regardless of all this , this job provides very less income . 7 . COFFEE SHOP COUNTER ATTENDANTS Coffee shop counter attendant is one of the lowest paying jobs of the world . It does not require any educational qualifications of any type of experience . People usually do this job either as a part time to manage their expenses or to acquire customer service experience . Job description of coffee shop counter attendants requires standing on the feet for the whole time during the job and attending the customers with polite behavior and then delivering the orders accurately . They also have to occasionally lift heavy loads from one place to another . So , despite of requiring physical strength this job provides very little salary . Their wages can vary depending upon the tips , but even then it is very low . 6 . DISHWASHERS Dishwashers are those persons who clean the dishes and utensils by their hands and then place those cooking utensils in orderly manner in the storage areas . They have to keep the kitchen clean and in proper condition by sweeping the floors . They also have to sort the trash and then place it at the pickup areas as designated . They also have to keep the garbage cans clean . There are many more responsibilities and duties that they have to perform , but even so much of hard work do not provide them with a good income and thus this job is one among the lowest paying jobs of the world . 5 . COBBLERS Cobbler sometimes also known as a shoemaker have to perform various tasks such as repairing damaged shoes using either knife or hammer or tack puller or prying tool or any other hand tools . He also mends shoes by stitching the broken parts or by filling holes by using wax filler . Basically , he either replaces the damaged parts or repairs them so that the shoes or slippers becomes brand new once again and can be worn once again . Mending shoes is also an art and requires practice and talent . But , this talent does not pay off very well and gives a very low income . 4 . SHAMPOOERS Shampooers are appointed in beauty parlors and have to perform certain specified tasks such as massaging , shampooing and conditioning the customer's hair . They have to treat the hair according to the nature and type of hair and have to advice the customer about the same treatment . They must be aware of the different treatment available for the hair loss and other scalp problems . Basically , they are in charge of the hair treatment and must possess knowledge about all hair problems . But , even after having so much of knowledge , their pay is very less which makes this job one among the lowest paying jobs . 3 . BARTENDER HELPERS Bartender helper have t perform many tasks such as cleaning the bar and the bar equipments and refilling the bar supplies . He has to even mop the floor and remove the empty cans and bottles to the trash and then even have to empty the trash . Since this job do not requires any educational degree , so it gives very little income to the one performing this job . 2 . FAST FOOD COOKS Fast food cooks are not only responsible for cooking but have to perform many other tasks . They have to keep the utensils and food preparation areas clean so that safety , health and sanitation standards at the workplace can be maintained and the food cooked can thus be hygienic and is of good quality . They also have to operate grills and griddles in large volumes . They even have to take orders from the customers and receive their payments . They have to cook the food according to the instructions given and also have to maintain the quality of the food . Regardless of so much of duties , they are not able to earn more and their income is thus very less . 1 . FOOD PREPARATION STAFF Food preparation staff is the one which do the chopping and slicing of the vegetables and prepares food according to the instructions of the supervisors . Apart from this they also clean the dishes , serve the food to the customers and store the food to prevent it from spoiling . They basically help the chefs and follow their orders . But , all this hard work is not well paid off and their salary is very less .	Information/Explanation
943	* Selecting this feature a cookie will be written to your hard disk so we can identify your account on your return . To clear this cookie , select ' logout ' from the pink strip . We do not recommended this feature if this is not your permanent computer . You ARE registered ... and Logged in . However , your account has NOT been validated , please check your email and click the validation link in the email . If you have not received your email , you can click the link below to receive another . If you suspect your email address may be incorrect , you can change this by clicking here .	Instruction
310	This section deals with gender discrimination , more commonly referred to as sex discrimination . Business Benefits Enhancing Customer Satisfaction increase the satisfaction of the customers enhance the reputation of the enterprise ensure that the diverse training needs of all disadvantaged groups are recognised and addressed show customers that you conduct business fairly Strengthening Community Roots help strengthen and deepen roots in the local community affirm the organisation's business commitment to the locality ensure that the best use is made of local suppliers Meeting Local Needs greater success in recruiting staff and trainees and helping them to achieve their personal and vocational goals greater customer loyalty an increased market share access to neglected markets and a wider customer base Becoming An Employer Of Choice an enhanced reputation as an employer a wider pool of applicants from which you increase the likelihood of recruiting the best person for the job Development & Promotion To Maximise Staff Potential improves retention provides savings in recruitment and retraining costs Family-friendly work practices lead to : greater commitment and higher productivity and staff retention Benefiting from partnerships , A Good EO reputation attracts : partners from a variety of agencies development funding by meeting social inclusion criteria Gaining Development Funding - Effective EO policy & implementation ensures that : the organisation meets funders' criteria funding applications are positively received AVERTING THE COSTS OF DISCRIMINATION : all discrimination is expensive costs money , undermines staff morale and reputation makes the organisation unattractive to employees , customers and suppliers adverse publicity or formal investigation of alleged discrimination is an expensive liability . THE ROLE OF GOOD EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES IN PROMOTING EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Equal opportunities policies are not required by law , but the benefits of having them is recognised by those employers who have drawn them up and implemented them . An equal opportunities policy : will ensure the effective use of human resources ; is in the best interests of both the organisation and its employees it is a commitment by an employer ( and their employees ) to the development and use of non-discriminatory procedures and practices . Implementing the Policy An equal opportunities policy must be seen to have the active support of management at the highest level . To ensure that the policy is fully effective , the following procedure is recommended : the policy should be clearly stated and where appropriate , included in a collective agreement ; overall responsibility for implementing the policy should rest with senior management ; all employment policies should be reviewed in the light of commitment to The EO policy ; the policy should be made known to all employees and , where reasonably practicable , to all job applicants . Trade unions have a very important part to play in implementing genuine equality of opportunity and they will obviously be involved in the review of established procedures to ensure that these are consistent with the law .	Promotion
1030	"Sponsorship and Promotions , Marketing and Programming Departments COMPETITION RULES AND GUIDELINES Definitions : Galaxy 102 hereinafter referred to as "" the Company "" "" Chrysalis Group "" means Chrysalis Group Plc and any company which is a subsidiary or holding company ( as those expressions are defined by Section 736 of the Companies Act 1985 ) of Chrysalis Group Plc and any subsidiary of any such holding company or any of them . Unless otherwise acknowledged , these rules apply to all competitions broadcast or operated by the Company varied only as circumstances may require . Rules pertaining to certain off-air promotions may only appear on the specific literature - eg gamecards or newspapers and leaflets . Participation instructions form part of these rules . All entrants must agree to abide by these rules . The submission of an entry shall be deemed to indicate acceptance of these rules . 1 . The competition is not open to employees or members of their immediate families ( including spouse , parents , grandparents , children , brothers , sisters , uncles , aunts , cousins and remoter issue and in any event the decision of the Company shall be final ) of the Company , the Radio Station and Chrysalis Group , their agents , participating clients or anyone connected with the promotion of the competition or event and again in the event of any dispute the decision of the Company shall be final and legally binding . 2 . Our competitions are intended simply to be fun without the intention of creating legal relations . Entry does not create an enforceable contract and does not entitle the participant to enforce any claim against the Company . 3 . Unless otherwise stated , no purchase or payment of any kind is required . 4 . Entries must be received by the Radio Station before the stated closing date and / or time and subject to the absolute discretion of the Company , late entries will not be considered . 5 . Where the prize may be won by a numbered caller or participant , the selection of the winning entrant will be at the Company's sole discretion . 6 . The Company can not be held responsible for any difficulty in communication with the Radio Station by telephone or other means . 7 . While every care will be taken , the Company can not be held responsible for the non-delivery , delay or loss of any entry . Proof of posting is not accepted as proof of delivery . The decision of the Company as to acceptance of any entry shall be final . 8 . All entries become the property of the Company and unless otherwise agreed , can not be returned . 9 . Entrants agree to their name and home town being published on the air and elsewhere . They agree to their participation being broadcast , recorded and repeated and otherwise used without being entitled to any payment . 10 . Subject to the Company deciding otherwise only the stated prize ( s ) may be won . There will not be a cash alternative to the stated prize . Cash prizes will be paid by cheque payable to the winning individual . The Company will not be responsible for any lost or misappropriated cheque . 11 . In the event of the stated prize becoming unavailable the Company will , where appropriate , arrange the supply of an appropriate alternative of similar value at the Company's sole discretion . 12 . In the event that there is more than one entry qualifying as prospective winner of a prize which is by its nature divisible ( for example a cash prize ) then such prize shall be shared , subject to the decision of the Company in respect of prize money not to extend beyond the aggregate amount broadcast as available in any one competition or , in a competition consisting of a series of games , beyond the maximum aggregate amount broadcast in relation to or allocated to any one game in the series , or the total for the entire series . Any such cash prize shall be paid by cheque to the winner in full and final satisfaction of the winner's claim . In the event of there being more than one prospective winner of a prize which is not by its nature divisible the decision of the Company as to the ultimate winner shall be final . 13 . A prize will not be awarded to a person who , for any reason , would not be allowed by law to purchase or use the prize where the supply to that person would be unlawful . 14 . Age limits may apply to certain prizes . Entrants outside such limits will be disqualified . For certain prizes , winners under 18 years of age must be accompanied on a journey or holiday or to an event by a parent or guardian or other responsible adult . 15 . Certain prizes may be won subject to success with a subsequent skill-testing question . 16 . The Company will notify the winner either by broadcast , by telephone or in writing of the arrangements for collection or delivery of the prize . Any prize not claimed and / or collected within 14 days of the first notification shall remain the property of the Company to do with as it considers fit . While the Company will use its best endeavours to ensure that prizes are received by the actual winner they shall not be responsible for any failure to do so . 17 . The decision of the Company is final . No correspondence will be entered into concerning the Company's decisions or interpretation of these rules . 18 . Complaints about the operation ( but not the judging - see Rule 17 ) of the competition may be made in writing to the Programme Controller . 19 . The Company reserves the right to reject claims or applications and to alter , amend or foreclose the promotion without prior notice . 20 . Subject to the complete discretion of the Company , the winning entry and the names and countries of the ( major ) prize winners will be made available after a specified date to anyone applying for this to the competition address and enclosing a stamped addressed envelope marked ' Results ' . 21 . Allow 28 days for delivery of a prize ."	Legal
1219	"Cancer lie military clerk Simon Buckden jailed A former military clerk who lied about having cancer to swindle victims out of money and services worth more than £ 7 , 500 has been jailed for 16 months . Simon Buckden , 44 , from Leeds , received donations including a £ 2 , 000 holiday after lying about his condition . He also falsely claimed to have served in the SAS and seen active duty in Bosnia and Northern Ireland . He was sentenced at Leeds Crown Court having pleaded guilty to six counts of fraud midway through his trial . For live updates and more from across West Yorkshire Buckden described traumatic experiences from his fabricated career , including holding a dying child in his arms , and claimed he suffered with post-traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) as a result . But jurors heard Buckden was a military clerk who had carried out one overseas deployment to Bosnia but had never experienced front line active service . He claimed he had been diagnosed with rectal cancer midway through a challenge to run 100 marathons in 100 weeks to raise awareness of PTSD . Judge Christopher Batty told Buckden : "" You are a dishonest and manipulative man . "" Over a period from at least 2009 , you developed a fictitious persona , a dishonest life history in order to advance your own prospects in life . "" The disrespect you have shown to those who have suffered cancer and to those who have lost their battle with it is quite breathtaking . "" At one stage during the challenge he ran from Leeds to Westminster , receiving the praise of former Prime Minister David Cameron . Mr Cameron said : "" I 'm happy to pay tribute to those people who have achieved so much through that run . "" Among his victims Buckden , who in 2012 took part in the Olympic torch relay , duped therapist Kimm Fearnley out of services worth about £ 240 . She said : "" He preyed on people who were kind and generous . "" My daughter died of cancer and to actually have somebody pretending to have cancer is abhorrent . "" Ex-serviceman Phil Lee , who was also conned , said Buckden "" bamboozled me with his sob story "" and he thought it was a "" no-brainer "" to offer his help to "" this very unfortunate person "" . He said Buckden's actions "" deeply offended "" genuine veterans . Buckden was given a restraining order banning him from contacting the prosecution witnesses in the case or making any comment about them on social media ."	News
1570	"1970 February - the US LP Hey Jude is released , which features previously released singles not available on LP . The record hits # 2 . March 6 - the UK single "" Let It Be "" is released , ( March 11 in the US ) reaching US # 1 and UK # 2 . It sets a record for the US charts for the highest first time entry on the singles chart , debuting at # 6 . April 10 - in an official press release accompanying his debut solo album McCartney , Paul makes several statements that reaffirm the breakup of the Beatles . However , Paul states that he is "" not done with the Beatles "" and does not directly state that the band has broken up ."	Information/Explanation
484	Beautifully illustrated by the award-winning artist Anthony Lewis , this atlas is full of colour maps that take you to all the countries of the world and show you the fascinating places you can see there . With a penguin bookmark to accompany you on your travels and a giant pull-out poster of the world at the back of the book , this is our most appealing and child-friendly atlas yet .	Promotion
1222	Arboretum service marks Suez canal zone ceasefire A national event to remember the loss of 450 British military casualties in Suez , Egypt , has been held . More than 100 members of the Suez Veterans' Association and their families took part in a service at the National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire . Wreaths were then laid at the Suez Memorial . The service was to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the ceasefire in the Suez canal zone . A spokesman said the veterans had commented on the anniversary's importance and recognising the service of their comrades . The military was sent to Egypt to defend British interests in the Suez Canal , an important shipping link . The military was sent to Egypt to defend British interests in the Suez Canal in 1951 . The canal , which runs through Egypt , remains an important shipping link between Africa and Asia , and Britain at the time already had a military presence in the area . But tensions with Egypt and a rise in nationalism in the area led to the declaration of an emergency period until 1954 and military action , by Israel , Britain and France began in 1956 as they tried to maintain Western control . It ultimately failed .	News
1527	Freshness How recently an egg was laid has a bearing on its freshness but is only one of many factors . The temperature and humidity level at which the egg is held play their parts as well . These variables are so important that an egg one week old , held under ideal conditions , can be fresher than an egg left at room temperature for one day . The ideal conditions for egg storage are temperatures between 35 and 40oF ( 2o to 4oC ) and a relative humidity of 70 to 80 % . Proper handling means promptly gathering and washing the eggs within a few hours after they 've been laid . Most commercially produced eggs reach supermarkets within a few days of leaving the laying house . If you and your market handle eggs properly , they 'll still be fresh when they reach the table . It 's a misconception that you can judge freshness by placing an egg in salt water . A carefully controlled brine test is sometimes used to judge shell thickness of eggs for hatching purposes but the test has no application to freshness of table eggs . How important is freshness ? As an egg ages , the white becomes thinner , the yolk becomes flatter and the yolk membrane becomes weaker . These changes do n't have any great effect on the nutritional quality of the egg or its functional cooking properties in recipes . Appearance may be affected though . When poached or fried , the fresher the egg , the more it will hold its shape rather than spread out in the pan . However , if you hard-boil eggs that are at least a week old , you 'll find them easier to peel than fresher eggs . The stronger the yolk membrane , the less likely the yolk will break inadvertently .	Instruction
153	"So I understand that this meeting was planned , and the slogan was From Was to Still . And I am illustrating Still . Which , of course , I am not agreeing with because , although I am 94 , I am not still working . And anybody who asks me , "" Are you still doing this or that ? "" I do n't answer because I 'm not doing things still , I 'm doing it like I always did . I still have -- or did I use the word still ? I did n't mean that . ( Laughter ) I have my file which is called To Do . I have my plans . I have my clients . I am doing my work like I always did . So this takes care of my age . I want to show you my work so you know what I am doing and why I am here . This was about 1925 . All of these things were made during the last 75 years . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) But , of course , I 'm working since 25 , doing more or less what you see here . This is Castleton China . This was an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art . This is now for sale at the Metropolitan Museum . This is still at the Metropolitan Museum now for sale . This is a portrait of my daughter and myself . ( Applause ) These were just some of the things I 've made . I made hundreds of them for the last 75 years . I call myself a maker of things . I do n't call myself an industrial designer because I 'm other things . Industrial designers want to make novel things . Novelty is a concept of commerce , not an aesthetic concept . The industrial design magazine , I believe , is called "" Innovation . "" Innovation is not part of the aim of my work . Well , makers of things : they make things more beautiful , more elegant , more comfortable than just the craftsmen do . I have so much to say . I have to think what I am going to say . Well , to describe our profession otherwise , we are actually concerned with the playful search for beauty . That means the playful search for beauty was called the first activity of Man . Sarah Smith , who was a mathematics professor at MIT , wrote , "" The playful search for beauty was Man's first activity -- that all useful qualities and all material qualities were developed from the playful search for beauty . "" These are tiles . The word , "" playful "" is a necessary aspect of our work because , actually , one of our problems is that we have to make produce lovely things throughout all of life , and this for me is now 75 years . So how can you , without drying up , make things with the same pleasure , as a gift to others , for so long ? The playful is therefore an important part of our quality as designer . Let me tell you some about my life . As I said , I started to do these things 75 years ago . My first exhibition in the United States was at the Sesquicentennial exhibition in 1926 -- that the Hungarian government sent one of my hand-drawn pieces as part of the exhibit . My work actually took me through many countries , and showed me a great part of the world . This is not that they took me -- the work did n't take me -- I made the things particularly because I wanted to use them to see the world . I was incredibly curious to see the world , and I made all these things , which then finally did take me to see many countries and many cultures . I started as an apprentice to a Hungarian craftsman , and this taught me what the guild system was in Middle Ages . The guild system : that means when I was an apprentice , I had to apprentice myself in order to become a pottery master . In my shop where I studied , or learned , there was a traditional hierarchy of master , journeyman and learned worker , and apprentice , and I worked as the apprentice . The work as an apprentice was very primitive . That means I had to actually learn every aspect of making pottery by hand . We mashed the clay with our feet when it came from the hillside . After that , it had to be kneaded . It had to then go in , kind of , a mangle . And then finally it was prepared for the throwing . And there I really worked as an apprentice . My master took me to set ovens because this was part of oven-making , oven-setting , in the time . And finally , I had received a document that I had accomplished my apprenticeship successfully , that I had behaved morally , and this document was given to me by the Guild of Roof-Coverers , Rail-Diggers , Oven-Setters , Chimney Sweeps and Potters . ( Laughter ) I also got at the time a workbook which explained my rights and my working conditions , and I still have that workbook . First I set up a shop in my own garden , and made pottery which I sold on the marketplace in Budapest . And there I was sitting , and my then-boyfriend -- I did n't mean it was a boyfriend like it is meant today -- but my boyfriend and I sat at the market and sold the pots . My mother thought that this was not very proper , so she sat with us to add propriety to this activity . ( Laughter ) However , after a while there was a new factory being built in Budapest , a pottery factory , a large one . And I visited it with several ladies , and asked all sorts of questions of the director . Then the director asked me , why do you ask all these questions ? I said , I also have a pottery . So he asked me , could he please visit me , and then finally he did , and explained to me that what I did now in my shop was an anachronism , that the industrial revolution had broken out , and that I rather should join the factory . There he made an art department for me where I worked for several months . However , everybody in the factory spent his time at the art department . The director there said there were several women casting and producing my designs now in molds , and this was sold also to America . I remember that it was quite successful . However , the director , the chemist , model maker -- everybody -- concerned himself much more with the art department -- that means , with my work -- than making toilets , so finally they got a letter from the center , from the bank who owned the factory , saying , make toilet-setting behind the art department , and that was my end . So this gave me the possibility because now I was a journeyman , and journeymen also take their satchel and go to see the world . So as a journeyman , I put an ad into the paper that I had studied , that I was a down-to-earth potter's journeyman and I was looking for a job as a journeyman . And I got several answers , and I accepted the one which was farthest from home and practically , I thought , halfway to America . And that was in Hamburg . Then I first took this job in Hamburg , at an art pottery where everything was done on the wheel , and so I worked in a shop where there were several potters . And the first day , I was coming to take my place at the turntable -- there were three or four turntables -- and one of them , behind where I was sitting , was a hunchback , a deaf-mute hunchback , who smelled very bad . So I doused him in cologne every day , which he thought was very nice , and therefore he brought bread and butter every day , which I had to eat out of courtesy . The first day I came to work in this shop there was on my wheel a surprise for me . My colleagues had thoughtfully put on the wheel where I was supposed to work a very nicely modeled natural man's organs . ( Laughter ) After I brushed them off with a hand motion , they were very -- I finally was now accepted , and worked there for some six months . This was my first job . If I go on like this , you will be here till midnight . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So I will try speed it up a little ( Laughter ) Moderator : Eva , we have about five minutes . ( Laughter ) Eva Zeisel : Are you sure ? Moderator : Yes , I am sure . EZ : Well , if you are sure , I have to tell you that within five minutes I will talk very fast . And actually , my work took me to many countries because I used my work to fill my curiosity . And among other things , other countries I worked , was in the Soviet Union , where I worked from ' 32 to ' 37 -- actually , to ' 36 . I was finally there , although I had nothing to do -- I was a foreign expert . I became art director of the china and glass industry , and eventually under Stalin's purges -- at the beginning of Stalin's purges , I did n't know that hundreds of thousands of innocent people were arrested . So I was arrested quite early in Stalin's purges , and spent 16 months in a Russian prison . The accusation was that I had successfully prepared an attentate on Stalin's life . This was a very dangerous accusation . And if this is the end of my five minutes , I want to tell you that I actually did survive , which was a surprise . But since I survived and I 'm here , and since this is the end of the five minutes , I will -- Moderator : Tell me when your last trip to Russia was . Were n ' t you there recently ? EZ : Oh , this summer , in fact , the Lomonosov factory was bought by an American company , invited me . They found out that I had worked in ' 33 at this factory , and they came to my studio in Rockland County , and brought the 15 of their artists to visit me here . And they invited myself to come to the Russian factory last summer , in July , to make some dishes , design some dishes . And since I do n't like to travel alone , they also invited my daughter , son-in-law and granddaughter , so we had a lovely trip to see Russia today , which is not a very pleasant and happy view . Here I am now , if this is the end ? Thank you . ( Applause ) </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
462	Office Support Jobs ¦ Temporary Office Jobs Synergy's office support recruitment consultants source staffing solutions and office support jobs for all UK office support positions , from secretarial to office manager jobs , in permanent , temporary and temp-perm vacancies . Whoever you are , whatever type of organisation you are and wherever you 're based , you get the same quality of service . Because we 're expert consultants in office support recruitment to the public , private and managed services sectors , we 're able to provide a customised solution each and every time that meets your goals , your deadlines and your budget . With our head office located in the heart of the City , we are ideally placed for West End and City based clients . Office Support Jobs - Charity Sector Jobs - Secretarial Jobs - Admin Jobs - Office manager Jobs - PA Jobs - Technical Office Support Jobs - Temporary Office Jobs Search here for all our office support jobs Public sector office support jobs : Recruiting for office support jobs in the public sector is the largest specialist area in the entire business . Working alongside Housing , Revenues & Benefits and Social Care this team has a proven history of recruiting talented people for all parts of the not-for-profit sector , including local authorities , housing associations and NHS trusts . Whatever roles our clients need to fill - from temporary secretarial vacancies to senior office manager jobs - we 're on hand with our expertise , experience and contacts . We operate an open accounting policy offering generous guarantees for fixed-term / permanent contracts for all our UK office support vacancies . Private sector office support jobs : Our private sector consultants specialise in providing office support recruitment solutions for administration , secretarial vacancies . With over 30 years collective experience our recruitment consultants specialise in building long-term relationships with both clients and candidates and providing staff for support and secretarial jobs which are the cornerstone of every successful business . Combined with our meticulous selection process , we deliver innovative recruitment solutions that guarantee results . We recruit for permanent , contract and temporary office jobs at all levels in the private sector , we work with both Blue Chip and small to medium enterprises . Signs of success When it comes to direct office support recruitment for secretarial , administration and technical support vacancies , we have a first-class mix of permanent as well as temporary office-based professionals on our books - many of whom work exclusively through us . Because of the quality we can guarantee and the competitiveness of our prices , 65 % of the work we 're doing at present is repeat business with proven temporary staff for administration and secretarial jobs . For further information about our office support recruitment solutions or to discuss our office support jobs , please contact us :	Promotion
1323	"Question What is ' drilled ' oil valued at ? The first time a single barrel of oil is sold , after it is drilled from the ground , what does it sell for ? How many times does it change hands ( The thing that changes hand - contract that is ' the future ' ' option - WTH IS IT ? ) before final destination ? Then when it reaches what the end what is it 's cost ? If the number is never static can I get a historical ' list ' If that is too much to answer .... With no one in "" the middle "" how much does a freshly filled barrel of oil cost today ? Is there an average "" X "" less than the ' delivered ' ? Answer There is some variability in the price of oil depending on where it is drilled , what the quality of the oil is , and other factors . Here 's a great place to find info on oil prices : http://phx.corporate-ir.net/External.Fil... This is from Valero's investor relations webpage . Valero is the largest US refinery company . The spread between gas prices and oil prices is very important to Valero because Valero buys raw oil , refines it , and then sells it as gas . The difference in these two prices is Valero's profit . The chart shows several different grades of crude oil and how much they cost by location . It also shows different refined products and their prices ( including gasoline , diesel , residential fuel oil , etc. ) . http://www.valero.com/InvestorRelations/... -------------------------------------- ... Oil futures generally track the average price of oil across the globe pretty well . The futures contracts will specify what grade of oil is being delivered and when . Oil futures that are very near expiration are going to reflect very closely to actual oil prices . Futures contracts are financial contracts that have their roots in the medieval ages . Originally the idea was that buyers would purchase a commodity from a seller before the seller had the commodity . For example a cloth maker might purchase 100 bags of wool before the farmer's sheep had any wool . Why would they do this ? Because the farmer would then have the money to feed the sheep so that there would be wool in the future . The farmer would get paid in advance and earn a profit , and the cloth maker would provide financing to the farmer ( often reaping an additional financing profit similar to earning interest ) . However in this case the cloth maker runs the risk that the price of wool might drop in the future . If so , the cloth maker might have been able to purchase the cloth at a lower price . On the other hand , if wool prices rise , the cloth maker gets a better price and can sell higher priced cloth for an even higher profit . Naturally this lends itself to speculator activity . Some people do n't have any intention of purchasing an underlying commodity , but they buy the futures contract ( providing financing to the commodity seller ) , wait for the commodity price to go up , and then sell the contract to somebody else later for a profit . It has actually gotten to a point where the futures contracts do n't even represent real commodities , instead speculators just bet on commodity prices in a zero sum game . The winner pays the loser and that 's it ! I would read some books on futures and options . Futures are complicated , but it is interesting and valuable information to have ."	Instruction
155	"I 'm going to talk about your mindset . Does your mindset correspond to my dataset ? ( Laughter ) If not , one or the other needs upgrading , is n't it ? When I talk to my students about global issues , and I listen to them in the coffee break , they always talk about "" we "" and "" them . "" And when they come back into the lecture room I ask them , "" What do you mean with "" we "" and "" them "" ? "" Oh it 's very easy . It 's the western world and it 's the developing world . "" They say . "" We learned it in college . "" And what is the definition then ? "" The definition ? Everyone knows , "" they say . But then you know , I press them like this . So one girl said , very cleverly , "" It 's very easy . Western world is a long life in a small family . Developing world is a short life in a large family . "" And I like that definition because it enabled me to transfer their mindset into the dataset . And here you have the dataset . So you can see that what we have on this axis here is size of family . One , two , three , four , five children per woman on this axis . And here , length of life , life expectancy , 30 , 40 , 50 . Exactly what the students said was their concept about the world . And really this is about the bedroom . Whether man and woman decide to have small family , and take care of their kids , and how long they will live . It 's about the bathroom and the kitchen . If you have soap , water and food , you know , you can live long . And the students were right . It was n ' t that the world consisted -- the world consisted here , of one set of countries over here , which had large families and short life . Developing world . And we had one set of countries up there which was the western world . They had small families and long life . And you are going to see here the amazing thing that has happened in the world during my lifetime . And then the developing countries applied soap and water , vaccination . And all the developing world start to apply family planning . And partly to USA who help to provide technical advice and investment . And you see all the world moves over to a two child family , and a life with 60 to 70 years . But some countries remain back in this area here . And you can see we still have Afghanistan down here . We have Liberia . We have Congo . So we have countries living there . So the problem I had is that the worldview that my students had correspond to reality in the world the year their teachers were born . ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) And we , in fact , when we have played this over the world . I was at the Global Health Conference here in Washington , last week , and I could see that the wrong concept even active people in the United States had . That they did n't realize the improvement of Mexico there , and China , in relation to United States . Look here when I move them forward . Here we go . They catch up . There 's Mexico . It 's on par with United States in these two social dimensions . There was less than five percent of the specialists in global health that was aware of this . This great nation , Mexico , has the problem that arms are coming from north , across the borders . So they had to stop that . Because they have this strange relationship to the United States , you know . But if I would change this axis here , look , and I would instead , here , I would put income per person . Income per person . I can put that here . And we will then see a completely different picture . By the way , I 'm teaching you how to use our website , Gapminder World , while I 'm correcting this because this is a free utility on the net . And when I now finally got it right , I can go back 200 years in history . And I can find United States up there . And I can let the other countries be shown . And now I have income per person on this axis . And the United States only had someone 2,000 dollar , at that time . And the life expectancy was 35 to 40 years , on par with Afghanistan today . And what has happened in the world , I will show now . This is instead of studying history for one year at university . You can watch me for one minute now and you 'll see the whole thing . ( Laughter ) You can see how the brown bubbles , which is west Europe , and the yellow one , which is United States , they get richer and richer and also start to get healthier and healthier . And this is now 100 years ago where the as the rest of the world remains behind . Here we come . And that was the influenza . That 's why we are so scared about flu is n't it ? It 's still remembered . The fall of life expectancy . And then we come up . And not until independence started . Look here you have China over there , you have India over there , and this is what has happened . You note there , that we have Mexico up there . Mexico is not at all on par with the United States . But they are quite close . And especially it 's interesting to see China and the United States , during 200 years . Because I have my oldest son now working for Google , after Google acquired this software . Because in fact this is child labor . My son and his wife sat in a closet for many years and developed this . And my youngest son , who studied Chinese in Beijing . So they come in with the two perspectives I have . You know ? And my son , youngest son who studied in Beijing , in China , he got a long term perspective . Where as when my oldest son , who work in Google , he should develop by quarter , or by half-year . Or , Google is quite generous , so he can have one or two years to go . But in China they look generation after generation because they remember the very embarrassing period , for 100 years , where they went backwards . And then they would remember the first part of the last century , which was really bad . And we could go by this so-called great leap forward . But this was 1963 . Mao Tse-Tung eventually brought health to China . And then he died . And then Deng Xiaoping started this amazing move forward . Is n't it strange to see that United States first grew the economy , and then gradually got rich . Where as China could get healthy much early . Because they applied the knowledge of education , nutrition , and then also benefits of penicillin and vaccines , and family planning . And Asia could have social development before they got the economic development . So to me , as a public health professor , it 's not strange that all these countries grow so fast now . Because what you see here , what you see here is the flat world of Thomas Friedman . Is n't it ? It 's not really really flat . But the middle income countries , and this is where I suggest to my students , stop using the concept "" developing world . "" Because after all , talking about developing world is like having two chapters in the history of United States . The last chapter is about the present , and president Obama . And the other is about the past . Where you cover everything from Washington to Eisenhower . Because Washington to Eisenhower , that is what we find in developing world . We could actually go from Mayflower to Eisenhower , and that would be put together into a developing world . Which is rightly growing its cities in a very amazing way . Which have great entrepreneurs , but also have the collapsing countries , So how could we make a better sense about this ? Well one way of trying is to see whether we could look at income distribution . This is the income distribution of peoples in the world , from one dollar . This is where you have food to eat . These people go to bed hungry . And this is the number of people . This is 10 dollar , whether you have a public or a private health service system . This is where you can provide health service for your family , and school for your children . And this is OECD countries . Green , Latin America , East Europe . This is East Asia . And the light blue there is South Asia . And this is how the world changed . It changed like this . Can you see how it 's growing ? And how hundreds of millions and billions is coming out of poverty in Asia ? And it goes over here . And I come now , into projections . But I have to stop at the door of Lehman Brothers there . You know . Because ... ( Laughter ) Because there the projections are not valid any longer . Probably the world will do this . And then it will continue forward like this . But more or less this is what will happen . And we have a world which can not be looked upon as divided . We have the high income countries here , with United States as a leading power . We have the emerging economies in the middle , that provide a lot of the funding for the bailout . And we have the low income countries here . Yeah this is a fact that from where the money come . They have been saving , you know , over the last decade . And here we have the low income countries where entrepreneurs are . And here we have the countries in collapse and war , like Afghanistan , Somalia , parts of Congo , Darfur . We have all this at the same time . That 's why it 's so problematic to describe what has happened in the developing world . Because it 's so different , what has happened there . And that 's why I suggest a slightly different approach of what you would call it . And you have huge difference within countries also . I heard that your departments here were by regions . Here you have Sub-Saharan Africa , South Asia , East Asia , Arab states , East Europe , Latin America , and OECD . And on this axis GDP . And on this , heath , child survival . And it does n ' t come as a surprise that Africa , south of Sahara , is at the bottom . But when I split it , when I split it into country bubbles , the size of the bubbles here is the population . Then you see Sierra Leone and Mauritius is completely different . There is such a difference within Sub-Saharan Africa . And I can split the others . Here the South Asian , Arab world . Now all you different departments . East Europe , Latin America , and OECD countries . And here were are . We have a continuum in the world . We can not put it into two parts . It is Mayflower down here . It is Washington here , building , building countries . It 's Lincoln here , advancing them . It 's Eisenhower bringing modernity into the countries . And then it 's United States today , up here . And we have countries all this way . Now this is the important thing of understanding how the world has changed . At this point I decided to make a pause . ( Laughter ) And it is my task , on behalf of the rest of the world , to convey a thank to the U. S. taxpayers , for Demographic Health Survey . Many are not aware of -- no this is not a joke . This is very serious . It is due to USA's continuous sponsoring during 25 years of the very good methodology for measuring child mortality that we have a grasp of what 's happening in the world . ( Applause ) And it is U. S. government at its best , without advocacy , providing facts , that it 's useful for the society . And providing data free of charge , on the internet , for the world to use . Thank you very much . Quite in the opposite of the World Bank , who compiled data with government money , tax money , and then they sell it to add a little profit , in a very inefficient , Guttenberg way . ( Applause ) But the people doing that at the world bank are among the best in the world . And they are highly skilled professionals . It 's just that we would like to upgrade our international agencies to deal with the world in a modern way , as we do . And when it comes to free data and transparency , United States of America is one of the best . And that does n ' t come easy from the mouth of a Swedish public health professor . ( Laughter ) And I 'm not paid to come here , no . I would like to show you what happens with the data , what we can show with this data . Look here . This is the world . With income down there , and child mortality . And what has happened in the world ? Since 1950 , during the last 50 years we have had a fall in child mortality . And this is the DHS that makes it possible to know this . And we had an increase in income . And the blue former developing countries are mixing up with the former industrialized western world . And we have a continuum . But we still have , and that is , of course , Congo , up there . We still have as poor countries as we have had , always , in history . And that 's the bottom billion , where we 've heard , today , about a completely new approach to do it . And how fast has this happened ? Well MDG 4 . United States have not been so eager to use MDG 4 . But you have been the main sponsor that has enabled us to measure it . Because it 's the only child mortality that we can measure . And we used to say that it should fall four percent per year . Let 's see what Sweden have done . We used to boast about fast social progress . That 's where we were , 1900 . 1900 , Sweden was there . Same child mortality as Bangladesh had , 1990 . Though they had lower income . They started very well . They used the aid well . They vaccinated the kids . They get better water . And they reduced child mortality , with an amazing 4.7 percent per year . They beat Sweden . I run Sweden the same 16 year period . Second round it 's Sweden 1916 , against Egypt 1990 . Here we go . Once again USA is part of the reason here . They get safe water . They get food for the poor . And they get malaria eradicated . 5.5 percent . They are faster than millennium development goal . And third chance for Sweden , against Brazil here . And Brazil here has amazing social improvement over the last 16 years . And they go faster than Sweden . This means that the world is converging . The middle income countries , the emerging economy , they are catching up . They are moving to cities , where they will also get better assistance for that . What the Swedish do is protest at this time . They say , "" This is not fair . because these countries had vaccine and antibiotic that was not available for Sweden . We have to do real-time competition . "" Okay . I give you Singapore , the year I was born . Singapore had twice the child mortality of Sweden . It 's the most tropical country in the world . A marshland on the equator . And here we go . It took a little time for them to get independent . But then they started to grow their economy . And they made the social investment . They got away malaria . They got a magnificent health system that beat both U. S. and Sweden . We never thought it would happen that they would win over Sweden ! ( Applause ) All these green countries are achieving millennium development goals . These yellow are just about to doing this . These red countries that does n ' t do it , and the policy has to be improved . Not simplistic extrapolation . We have to really find a way of supporting those countries in a better way . We have to respect the middle income countries on what they are doing . And we have to fact-base the whole way we look at the world . This is dollar per person . This is HIV in the countries . The blue is Africa . The size of the bubbles is how many are HIV affected . You see the tragedy in South Africa there . About 20 percent of the adult population are infected . And in spite of them having quite a high income they have a huge number of HIV infected . But you also see that there are African countries down here . There is no such thing as an HIV epidemic in Africa . There 's a number , 5 to 10 countries in Africa that has the same level as Sweden and United States . And there are others who are extremely high . And I will show you that what has happened in one of the best countries , with the most vibrant economy in Africa , and a good governance , is Botswana . They have a very high level . It 's coming down . But now it 's not falling . Because there , with help from PEPFAR it 's working with treatment . And people are not dying . And you can see it 's not that easy , that it is war which caused this . Because here , in Congo , there is war . And here , in Zambia , there is peace . And it 's not the economy . Richer country has a little higher . And if I split Tanzania in its income . The richer 20 percent in Tanzania has more HIV than the poorest one . And it 's really different within country . Look at the provinces of Kenya . They are very different . And this is the situation you see . It 's not deep poverty . It 's the special situation . Probably of concurrent sexual partnership among part of the heterosexual population in some countries , or some parts of countries , in south and eastern Africa . Do n't make it Africa . Do n't make it a race issue . Make it a local issue . And do prevention at each place , in the way it can be done there . So to just end up . There are things of suffering in the one billion poorest , which we do n't know . Those who live beyond the cellphone , those who have yet to see a computer , those who have no electricity at home . This is the disease Konzo , I spent 20 years elucidating in Africa . It 's caused by fast processing of toxic cassava root , in famine situation . It 's similar to the pellagra epidemic in Mississippi , in the '30s . It 's similar to other nutritional diseases . It will never affect a rich person We have seen it here in Mozambique . This is the epidemic in Mozambique . This is an epidemic in northern Tanzania . You never heard about the disease . But it 's much more than ebola that has been affected by this disease . Cause crippling throughout the world . And over the last two years 2,000 people has been crippled in the southern tip of Bandunda region . That used to be the illegal diamond trade , from the UNITA-dominated area in Angola . That has now disappeared . And they are now in great economical problem . And one week ago , for the first time , there were four lines on the Internet . Do n't get confused of the progress of the emerging economies , and the great capacity of people in the middle income countries , and in peaceful low income countries . There is still mystery in one billion . And we have to have more concept than just developing countries and developing world . We need a new mindset . The world is converging . But , but , but , not the bottom billion . They are still as poor as they 've ever been . It 's not sustainable . And it will not happen around one superpower . But you will remain one of the most important superpower . And the most hopeful superpower , for the time to be . And this institution will have a very crucial role , not for United States , but for the world . So you have a very bad name , State Department , this is not the State Department . It 's the World Department . And we have a high hope in you . Thank you very much . ( Applause ) </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
65	"THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Son cœur est un luth suspendu ; Sitôt qu ' on le touche il résonne . De Béranger . During the whole of a dull , dark , and soundless day in the autumn of the year , when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens , I had been passing alone , on horseback , through a singularly dreary tract of country ; and at length found myself , as the shades of the evening drew on , within view of the melancholy House of Usher . I know not how it was – but , with the first glimpse of the building , a sense of insufferable gloom pervaded my spirit . I say insufferable ; for the feeling was unrelieved by any of that half-pleasurable , because poetic , sentiment , with which the mind usually receives even the sternest natural images of the desolate or terrible . I looked upon the scene before me – upon the mere house , and the simple landscape features of the domain – upon the bleak walls – upon the vacant eye-like windows – upon a few rank sedges – and upon a few white trunks of decayed trees – with an utter depression of soul which I can compare to no earthly sensation more properly than to the after-dream of the reveler upon opium – the bitter lapse into every-day life – the hideous dropping off of the veil . There was an iciness , a sinking , a sickening of the heart – an unredeemed dreariness of thought which no goading of the imagination could torture into aught of the sublime . What was it – I paused to think – what was it that so unnerved me in the contemplation of the House of Usher ? It was a mystery all insoluble ; nor could I grapple with the shadowy fancies that crowded upon me as I pondered . I was forced to fall back upon the unsatisfactory conclusion that while , beyond doubt , there are combinations of very simple natural objects which have the power of thus affecting us , still the analysis of this power lies among considerations beyond our depth . It was possible , I reflected , that a mere different arrangement of the particulars of the scene , of the details of the picture , would be sufficient to modify , or perhaps to annihilate its capacity for sorrowful impression ; and , acting upon this idea , I reined my horse to the precipitous brink of a black and lurid tarn that lay in unruffled luster by the dwelling , and gazed down – but with a shudder even more thrilling than before – upon the remodeled and inverted images of the gray sedge , and the ghastly tree stems , and the vacant and eye-like windows . Nevertheless , in this mansion of gloom I now proposed to myself a sojourn of some weeks . Its proprietor , Roderick Usher , had been one of my boon companions in boyhood ; but many years had elapsed since our last meeting . A letter , however , had lately reached me in a distant part of the country – a letter from him – which , in its wildly importunate nature , had admitted of no other than a personal reply . The MS . gave evidence of nervous agitation . The writer spoke of acute bodily illness – of a mental disorder which oppressed him , and of an earnest desire to see me , as his best , and indeed his only personal friend , with a view of attempting , by the cheerfulness of my society , some alleviation of his malady . It was the manner in which all this , and much more , was said – it was the apparent heart that went with his request – which allowed me no room for hesitation ; and I accordingly obeyed forthwith what I still considered a very singular summons . Although , as boys , we had been even intimate associates , yet I really knew little of my friend . His reserve had been always excessive and habitual . I was aware , however , that his very ancient family had been noted , time out of mind , for a peculiar sensibility of temperament , displaying itself , through long ages , in many works of exalted art , and manifested , of late , in repeated deeds of munificent , yet unobtrusive charity , as well as in a passionate devotion to the intricacies , perhaps even more than to the orthodox and easily recognizable beauties , of musical science . I had learned , too , the very remarkable fact that the stem of the Usher race , all time-honored as it was , had put forth , at no period , any enduring branch ; in other words , that the entire family lay in the direct line of descent , and had always , with very trifling and very temporary variation , so lain . It was this deficiency , I considered , while running over in thought the perfect keeping of the character of the premises with the accredited character of the people , and while speculating upon the possible influence which the one , in the long lapse of centuries , might have exercised upon the other – it was this deficiency , perhaps , of collateral issue , and the consequent undeviating transmission , from sire to son , of the patrimony with the name , which had , at length , so identified the two as to merge the original title of the estate in the quaint and equivocal appellation of the "" House of Usher "" – an appellation which seemed to include , in the minds of the peasantry who used it , both the family and the family mansion . I have said that the sole effect of my somewhat childish experiment of looking down within the tarn had been to deepen the first singular impression . There can be no doubt that the consciousness of the rapid increase of my superstition – for why should I not so term it ? – served mainly to accelerate the increase itself . Such , I have long known , is the paradoxical law of all sentiments having terror as a basis . And it might have been for this reason only , that , when I again uplifted my eyes to the house itself , from its image in the pool , there grew in my mind a strange fancy – a fancy so ridiculous , indeed , that I but mention it to show the vivid force of the sensations which oppressed me . I had so worked upon my imagination as really to believe that about the whole mansion and domain there hung an atmosphere peculiar to themselves and their immediate vicinity – an atmosphere which had no affinity with the air of heaven , but which had reeked up from the decayed trees , and the gray wall , and the silent tarn – a pestilent and mystic vapor , dull , sluggish , faintly discernible , and leaden-hued . Shaking off from my spirit what must have been a dream , I scanned more narrowly the real aspect of the building . Its principal feature seemed to be that of an excessive antiquity . The discoloration of ages had been great . Minute fungi overspread the whole exterior , hanging in a fine , tangled web-work from the eaves . Yet all this was apart from any extraordinary dilapidation . No portion of the masonry had fallen ; and there appeared to be a wild inconsistency between its still perfect adaptation of parts , and the crumbling condition of the individual stones . In this there was much that reminded me of the specious totality of old woodwork which has rotted for years in some neglected vault , with no disturbance from the breath of the external air . Beyond this indication of extensive decay , however , the fabric gave little token of instability . Perhaps the eye of a scrutinizing observer might have discovered a barely perceptible fissure , which , extending from the roof of the building in front , made its way down the wall in a zigzag direction , until it became lost in the sullen waters of the tarn . Noticing these things , I rode over a short causeway to the house . A servant in waiting took my horse , and I entered the Gothic archway of the hall . A valet , of stealthy step , thence conducted me , in silence , through many dark and intricate passages in my progress to the studio of his master . Much that I encountered on the way contributed , I know not how , to heighten the vague sentiments of which I have already spoken . While the objects around me – while the carvings of the ceilings , the somber tapestries of the walls , the ebon blackness of the floors , and the phantasmagoric armorial trophies which rattled as I strode , were but matters to which , or to such as which , I had been accustomed from my infancy – while I hesitated not to acknowledge how familiar was all this – I still wondered to find how unfamiliar were the fancies which ordinary images were stirring up . On one of the staircases I met the physician of the family . His countenance , I thought , wore a mingled expression of low cunning and perplexity . He accosted me with trepidation and passed on . The valet now threw open a door and ushered me into the presence of his master . The room in which I found myself was very large and lofty . The windows were long , narrow , and pointed , and at so vast a distance from the black oaken floor as to be altogether inaccessible from within . Feeble gleams of encrimsoned light made their way through the trellised panes , and served to render sufficiently distinct the more prominent objects around ; the eye , however , struggled in vain to reach the remoter angles of the chamber , or the recesses of the vaulted and fretted ceiling . Dark draperies hung upon the walls . The general furniture was profuse , comfortless , antique , and tattered . Many books and musical instruments lay scattered about , but failed to give any vitality to the scene . I felt that I breathed an atmosphere of sorrow . An air of stern , deep , and irredeemable gloom hung over and pervaded all . Upon my entrance , Usher arose from a sofa on which he had been lying at full length , and greeted me with a vivacious warmth which had much in it , I at first thought , of an overdone cordiality – of the constrained effort of the ennuyé man of the world . A glance , however , at his countenance convinced me of his perfect sincerity . We sat down ; and for some moments , while he spoke not , I gazed upon him with a feeling half of pity , half of awe . Surely , man had never before so terribly altered , in so brief a period , as had Roderick Usher ! It was with difficulty that I could bring myself to admit the identity of the wan being before me with the companion of my early boyhood . Yet the character of his face had been at all times remarkable . A cadaverousness of complexion ; an eye large , liquid , and luminous beyond comparison ; lips somewhat thin and very pallid , but of a surpassingly beautiful curve ; a nose of a delicate Hebrew model , but with a breadth of nostril unusual in similar formations ; a finely molded chin , speaking , in its want of prominence , of a want of moral energy ; hair of a more than web-like softness and tenuity ; these features , with an inordinate expansion above the regions of the temple , made up altogether a countenance not easily to be forgotten . And now in the mere exaggeration of the prevailing character of these features , and of the expression they were wont to convey , lay so much of change that I doubted to whom I spoke . The now ghastly pallor of the skin , and the now miraculous luster of the eye , above all things startled and even awed me . The silken hair , too , had been suffered to grow all unheeded , and as , in its wild gossamer texture , it floated rather than fell about the face , I could not , even with effort , connect its arabesque expression with any idea of simple humanity . In the manner of my friend I was at once struck with an incoherence – an inconsistency ; and I soon found this to arise from a series of feeble and futile struggles to overcome an habitual trepidancy , an excessive nervous agitation . For something of this nature I had indeed been prepared , no less by his letter than by reminiscences of certain boyish traits , and by conclusions deduced from his peculiar physical conformation and temperament . His action was alternately vivacious and sullen . His voice varied rapidly from a tremulous indecision ( when the animal spirits seemed utterly in abeyance ) to that species of energetic concision – that abrupt , weighty , unhurried , and hollow-sounding enunciation – that leaden , self-balanced , and perfectly modulated guttural utterance , which may be observed in the lost drunkard , or the irreclaimable eater of opium , during the periods of his most intense excitement . It was thus that he spoke of the object of my visit , of his earnest desire to see me , and of the solace he expected me to afford him . He entered , at some length , into what he conceived to be the nature of his malady . It was , he said , a constitutional and a family evil , and one for which he despaired to find a remedy – a mere nervous affection , he immediately added , which would undoubtedly soon pass off . It displayed itself in a host of unnatural sensations . Some of these , as he detailed them , interested and bewildered me ; although , perhaps , the terms and the general manner of the narration had their weight . He suffered much from a morbid acuteness of the senses . The most insipid food was alone endurable ; he could wear only garments of certain texture ; the odors of all flowers were oppressive ; his eyes were tortured by even a faint light ; and there were but peculiar sounds , and these from stringed instruments , which did not inspire him with horror . To an anomalous species of terror I found him a bounden slave . "" I shall perish , "" said he , "" I must perish in this deplorable folly . Thus , thus , and not otherwise , shall I be lost . I dread the events of the future , not in themselves , but in their results . I shudder at the thought of any , even the most trivial , incident , which may operate upon this intolerable agitation of soul . I have , indeed , no abhorrence of danger , except in its absolute effect – in terror . In this unnerved – in this pitiable condition – I feel that the period will sooner or later arrive when I must abandon life and reason together , in some struggle with the grim phantasm , Fear . "" I learned , moreover , at intervals , and through broken and equivocal hints , another singular feature of his mental condition . He was enchained by certain superstitious impressions in regard to the dwelling which he tenanted , and whence , for many years , he had never ventured forth – in regard to an influence whose supposititious force was conveyed in terms too shadowy here to be restated – an influence which some peculiarities in the mere form and substance of his family mansion , had , by dint of long sufferance , he said , obtained over his spirit – an effect which the physique of the gray walls and turrets , and of the dim tarn into which they all looked down , had , at length , brought about upon the morale of his existence . He admitted , however , although with hesitation , that much of the peculiar gloom which thus afflicted him could be traced to a more natural and far more palpable origin – to the severe and long-continued illness – indeed to the evidently approaching dissolution – of a tenderly beloved sister , his sole companion for long years , his last and only relative on earth . "" Her decease , "" he said , with a bitterness which I can never forget , "" would leave him ( him the hopeless and the frail ) the last of the ancient race of the Ushers . "" While he spoke , the lady Madeline ( for so was she called ) passed slowly through a remote portion of the apartment , and , without having noticed my presence , disappeared . I regarded her with an utter astonishment not unmingled with dread ; and yet I found it impossible to account for such feelings . A sensation of stupor oppressed me , as my eyes followed her retreating steps . When a door , at length , closed upon her , my glance sought instinctively and eagerly the countenance of the brother ; but he had buried his face in his hands , and I could only perceive that a far more than ordinary wanness had overspread the emaciated fingers through which trickled many passionate tears . The disease of the lady Madeline had long baffled the skill of her physicians . A settled apathy , a gradual wasting away of the person , and frequent although transient affections of a partially cataleptical character , were the unusual diagnosis . Hitherto she had steadily borne up against the pressure of her malady , and had not betaken herself finally to bed ; but on the closing in of the evening of my arrival at the house , she succumbed ( as her brother told me at night with inexpressible agitation ) to the prostrating power of the destroyer ; and I learned that the glimpse I had obtained of her person would thus probably be the last I should obtain – that the lady , at least while living , would be seen by me no more . For several days ensuing her name was unmentioned by either Usher or myself ; and during this period I was busied in earnest endeavors to alleviate the melancholy of my friend . We painted and read together ; or I listened , as if in a dream , to the wild improvisations of his speaking guitar . And thus , as a closer and still closer intimacy admitted me more unreservedly into the recesses of his spirit , the more bitterly did I perceive the futility of all attempt at cheering a mind from which darkness , as if an inherent positive quality , poured forth upon all objects of the moral and physical universe , in one unceasing radiation of gloom . I shall ever bear about me a memory of the many solemn hours I thus spent alone with the master of the House of Usher . Yet I should fail in any attempt to convey an idea of the exact character of the studies , or of the occupations in which he involved me , or led me the way . An excited and highly distempered ideality threw a sulphurous luster over all . His long , improvised dirges will ring forever in my ears . Among other things , I hold painfully in mind a certain singular perversion and amplification of the wild air of the last waltz of Von Weber . From the paintings over which his elaborate fancy brooded , and which grew , touch by touch , into vaguenesses at which I shuddered the more thrillingly because I shuddered knowing not why , – from these paintings ( vivid as their images now are before me ) I would in vain endeavor to deduce more than a small portion which should lie within the compass of merely written words . By the utter simplicity , by the nakedness of his designs , he arrested and overawed attention . If ever mortal painted an idea , that mortal was Roderick Usher . For me , at least – in the circumstances then surrounding me – there arose out of the pure abstractions which the hypochondriac contrived to throw upon his canvas , an intensity of intolerable awe , no shadow of which felt I ever yet in the contemplation of the certainly glowing yet too concrete reveries of Fuseli . One of the phantasmagoric conceptions of my friend , partaking not so rigidly of the spirit of abstraction , may be shadowed forth , although feebly , in words . A small picture presented the interior of an immensely long and rectangular vault or tunnel , with low walls , smooth , white , and without interruption or device . Certain accessory points of the design served well to convey the idea that this excavation lay at an exceeding depth below the surface of the earth . No outlet was observed in any portion of its vast extent , and no torch or other artificial source of light was discernible ; yet a flood of intense rays rolled throughout , and bathed the whole in a ghastly and inappropriate splendor . I have just spoken of that morbid condition of the auditory nerve which rendered all music intolerable to the sufferer , with the exception of certain effects of stringed instruments . It was , perhaps , the narrow limits to which he thus confined himself upon the guitar , which gave birth , in great measure , to the fantastic character of his performances . But the fervid facility of his impromptus could not be so accounted for . They must have been , and were , in the notes , as well as in the words of his wild fantasias ( for he not unfrequently accompanied himself with rimed verbal improvisations ) , the result of that intense mental collectedness and concentration to which I have previously alluded as observable only in particular moments of the highest artificial excitement . The words of one of these rhapsodies I have easily remembered . I was , perhaps , the more forcibly impressed with it , as he gave it , because , in the under or mystic current of its meaning , I fancied that I perceived , and for the first time , a full consciousness on the part of Usher , of the tottering of his lofty reason upon her throne . The verses , which were entitled "" The Haunted Palace , "" ran very nearly , if not accurately , thus : I. In the greenest of our valleys , By good angels tenanted , Once a fair and stately palace – Radiant palace – reared its head . In the monarch Thought's dominion – It stood there ! Never seraph spread a pinion Over fabric half so fair . II . Banners yellow , glorious , golden , On its roof did float and flow ; ( This – all this – was in the olden Time long ago ) And every gentle air that dallied , In that sweet day , Along the ramparts plumed and pallid , A wingèd odor went away . III . Wanderers in that happy valley Through two luminous windows saw Spirits moving musically To a lute's well-tunèd law , Round about a throne , where sitting ( Porphyrogene ! ) In state his glory well befitting , The ruler of the realm was seen . IV . And all with pearl and ruby glowing Was the fair palace door , Through which came flowing , flowing , flowing And sparkling evermore , A troop of Echoes whose sweet duty Was but to sing , In voices of surpassing beauty , The wit and wisdom of their king . V. But evil things , in robes of sorrow , Assailed the monarch's high estate ( Ah , let us mourn , for never morrow Shall dawn upon him , desolate ! ) ; And , round about his home , the glory That blushed and bloomed Is but a dim-remembered story Of the old time entombed . VI . And travelers now within that valley , Through the red-litten windows , see Vast forms that move fantastically To a discordant melody ; While , like a rapid ghastly river , Through the pale door , A hideous throng rush out forever , And laugh – but smile no more . I well remember that suggestions arising from this ballad led us into a train of thought wherein there became manifest an opinion of Usher's which I mention not so much on account of its novelty ( for other men [ 1 ] have thought thus ) as on account of the pertinacity with which he maintained it . This opinion , in its general form , was that of the sentience of all vegetable things . But , in his disordered fancy , the idea had assumed a more daring character , and trespassed , under certain conditions , upon the kingdom of inorganization . I lack words to express the full extent or the earnest abandon of his persuasion . The belief , however , was connected ( as I have previously hinted ) with the gray stones of the home of his forefathers . The conditions of the sentience had been here , he imagined , fulfilled in the method of collocation of these stones – in the order of their arrangement , as well as in that of the many fungi which overspread them , and of the decayed trees which stood around – above all , in the long-undisturbed endurance of this arrangement , and in its reduplication in the still waters of the tarn . Its evidence – the evidence of the sentience – was to be seen , he said ( and I here started as he spoke ) , in the gradual yet certain condensation of an atmosphere of their own about the waters and the walls . The result was discoverable , he added , in that silent , yet importunate and terrible influence which for centuries had molded the destinies of his family , and which made him what I now saw him – what he was . Such opinions need no comment , and I will make none . Our books – the books which , for years , had formed no small portion of the mental existence of the invalid – were , as might be supposed , in strict keeping with this character of phantasm . We pored together over such works as the Ververt et Chartreuse of Gresset ; the Belphegor of Machiavelli ; the Heaven and Hell of Swedenborg ; the Subterranean Voyage of Nicholas Klimm by Holberg ; the Chiromancy of Robert Flud , of Jean D ' Indaginé , and of De la Chambre ; the Journey into the Blue Distance of Tieck ; and the City of the Sun of Campanella . One favorite volume was a small octavo edition of the Directorium Inquisitorium , by the Dominican Eymeric de Cironne ; and there were passages in Pomponius Mela , about the old African Satyrs and Œgipans , over which Usher would sit dreaming for hours . His chief delight , however , was found in the perusal of an exceedingly rare and curious book in quarto Gothic – the manual of a forgotten church – the Vigiliae Mortuorum secundum Chorum Ecclesiae Maguntinae . I could not help thinking of the wild ritual of this work , and of its probable influence upon the hypochondriac , when , one evening , having informed me abruptly that the lady Madeline was no more , he stated his intention of preserving her corpse for a fortnight ( previously to its final interment ) in one of the numerous vaults within the main walls of the building . The worldly reason , however , assigned for this singular proceeding , was one which I did not feel at liberty to dispute . The brother had been led to his resolution , so he told me , by consideration of the unusual character of the malady of the deceased , of certain obtrusive and eager inquiries on the part of her medical men , and of the remote and exposed situation of the burial ground of the family . I will not deny that when I called to mind the sinister countenance of the person whom I met upon the staircase , on the day of my arrival at the house , I had no desire to oppose what I regarded as at best but a harmless , and by no means an unnatural precaution . At the request of Usher , I personally aided him in the arrangements for the temporary entombment . The body having been encoffined , we two alone bore it to its rest . The vault in which we placed it ( and which had been so long unopened that our torches , half smothered in its oppressive atmosphere , gave us little opportunity for investigation ) was small , damp , and entirely without means of admission for light ; lying , at great depth , immediately beneath that portion of the building in which was my own sleeping apartment . It had been used , apparently , in remote feudal times , for the worst purposes of a donjon-keep , and in later days , as a place of deposit for powder , or some other highly combustible substance , as a portion of its floor , and the whole interior of a long archway through which we reached it , were carefully sheathed with copper . The door , of massive iron , had been also similarly protected . Its immense weight caused an unusually sharp grating sound , as it moved upon its hinges . Having deposited our mournful burden upon tressels within this region of horror , we partially turned aside the yet unscrewed lid of the coffin , and looked upon the face of the tenant . A striking similitude between the brother and sister now first arrested my attention ; and Usher , divining , perhaps , my thoughts , murmured out some few words from which I learned that the deceased and himself had been twins , and that sympathies of a scarcely intelligible nature had always existed between them . Our glances , however , rested not long upon the dead – for we could not regard her unawed . The disease which had thus entombed the lady in the maturity of youth , had left , as usual in all maladies of a strictly cataleptical character , the mockery of a faint blush upon the bosom and the face , and that suspiciously lingering smile upon the lip which is so terrible in death . We replaced and screwed down the lid , and having secured the door of iron , made our way , with toil , into the scarcely less gloomy apartments of the upper portion of the house . And now , some days of bitter grief having elapsed , an observable change came over the features of the mental disorder of my friend . His ordinary manner had vanished . His ordinary occupations were neglected or forgotten . He roamed from chamber to chamber with hurried , unequal , and objectless step . The pallor of his countenance had assumed , if possible , a more ghastly hue – but the luminousness of his eye had utterly gone out . The once occasional huskiness of his tone was heard no more ; and a tremulous quaver , as if of extreme terror , habitually characterized his utterance . There were times , indeed , when I thought his unceasingly agitated mind was laboring with some oppressive secret , to divulge which he struggled for the necessary courage . At times , again , I was obliged to resolve all into the mere inexplicable vagaries of madness ; for I beheld him gazing upon vacancy for long hours , in an attitude of the profoundest attention , as if listening to some imaginary sound . It was no wonder that his condition terrified – that it infected me . I felt creeping upon me , by slow yet certain degrees , the wild influence of his own fantastic yet impressive superstitions . It was , especially , upon retiring to bed late in the night of the seventh or eighth day after the placing of the lady Madeline within the donjon , that I experienced the full power of such feelings . Sleep came not near my couch , while the hours waned and waned away . I struggled to reason off the nervousness which had dominion over me . I endeavored to believe that much , if not all of what I felt , was due to the bewildering influence of the gloomy furniture of the room – of the dark and tattered draperies , which , tortured into motion by the breath of a rising tempest , swayed fitfully to and fro upon the walls , and rustled uneasily about the decorations of the bed . But my efforts were fruitless . An irrepressible tremor gradually pervaded my frame ; and , at length , there sat upon my very heart an incubus of utterly causeless alarm . Shaking this off with a gasp and a struggle , I uplifted myself upon the pillows , and peering earnestly within the intense darkness of the chamber , hearkened – I know not why , except that an instinctive spirit prompted me – to certain low and indefinite sounds which came , through the pauses of the storm , at long intervals , I knew not whence . Overpowered by an intense sentiment of horror , unaccountable yet unendurable , I threw on my clothes with haste ( for I felt that I should sleep no more during the night ) , and endeavored to arouse myself from the pitiable condition into which I had fallen , by pacing rapidly to and fro through the apartment . I had taken but few turns in this manner , when a light step on an adjoining staircase arrested my attention . I presently recognized it as that of Usher . In an instant afterward he rapped , with a gentle touch , at my door , and entered , bearing a lamp . His countenance was , as usual , cadaverously wan – but , moreover , there was a species of mad hilarity in his eyes – and evidently restrained hysteria in his whole demeanor . His air appalled me – but anything was preferable to the solitude which I had so long endured , and I even welcomed his presence as a relief . "" And you have not seen it ? "" he said abruptly , after having stared about him for some moments in silence – "" You have not then seen it ? – but stay ! you shall . "" Thus speaking , and having carefully shaded his lamp , he hurried to one of the casements , and threw it freely open to the storm . The impetuous fury of the entering gust nearly lifted us from our feet . It was , indeed , a tempestuous yet sternly beautiful night , and one wildly singular in its terror and its beauty . A whirlwind had apparently collected its force in our vicinity ; for there were frequent and violent alterations in the direction of the wind ; and the exceeding density of the clouds ( which hung so low as to press upon the turrets of the house ) did not prevent our perceiving the lifelike velocity with which they flew careering from all points against each other , without passing away into the distance . I say that even their exceeding density did not prevent our perceiving this – yet we had no glimpse of the moon or stars – nor was there any flashing forth of the lightning . But the under surfaces of the huge masses of agitated vapor , as well as all terrestrial objects immediately around us , were glowing in the unnatural light of a faintly luminous and distinctly visible gaseous exhalation which hung about and enshrouded the mansion . "" You must not – you shall not behold this ! "" said I , shudderingly , to Usher , as I led him , with a gentle violence , from the window to a seat . "" These appearances , which bewilder you , are merely electrical phenomena not uncommon – or it may be that they have their ghastly origin in the rank miasma of the tarn . Let us close this casement – the air is chilling and dangerous to your frame . Here is one of your favorite romances . I will read and you shall listen ; – and so we will pass away this terrible night together . "" The antique volume which I had taken up was the "" Mad Trist "" of Sir Launcelot Canning ; but I had called it a favorite of Usher's more in sad jest than in earnest ; for , in truth , there is little in its uncouth and unimaginative prolixity which could have had interest for the lofty and spiritual ideality of my friend . It was , however , the only book immediately at hand ; and I indulged a vague hope that the excitement which now agitated the hypochondriac , might find relief ( for the history of mental disorder is full of similar anomalies ) even in the extremeness of the folly which I should read . Could I have judged , indeed , by the wild , overstrained air of vivacity with which he hearkened , or apparently harkened , to the words of the tale , I might well have congratulated myself upon the success of my design . I had arrived at that well-known portion of the story where Ethelred , the hero of the Trist , having sought in vain for peaceable admission into the dwelling of the hermit , proceeds to make good an entrance by force . Here , it will be remembered , the words of the narrative run thus : "" And Ethelred , who was by nature of a doughty heart , and who was now mighty withal , on account of the powerfulness of the wine which he had drunken , waited no longer to hold parley with the hermit , who , in sooth , was of an obstinate and maliceful turn ; but , feeling the rain upon his shoulders , and fearing the rising of the tempest , uplifted his mace outright , and , with blows , made quickly room in the plankings of the door for his gauntleted hand ; and now pulling therewith sturdily , he so cracked , and ripped , and tore all asunder , that the noise of the dry and hollow-sounding wood alarummed and reverberated throughout the forest . "" At the termination of this sentence I started , and for a moment paused ; for it appeared to me ( although I at once concluded that my excited fancy had deceived me ) – it appeared to me that , from some very remote portion of the mansion , there came , indistinctly , to my ears what might have been , in its exact similarity of character , the echo ( but a stifled and dull one certainly ) of the very cracking and ripping sound which Sir Launcelot had so particularly described . It was , beyond doubt , the coincidence alone which had arrested my attention ; for , amid the rattling of the sashes of the casements , and the ordinary commingled noises of the still increasing storm , the sound , in itself , had nothing , surely , which should have interested or disturbed me . I continued the story : "" But the good champion Ethelred , now entering within the door , was sore enraged and amazed to perceive no signal of the maliceful hermit ; but , in the stead thereof , a dragon of a scaly and prodigious demeanor , and of a fiery tongue , which sate in guard before a palace of gold , with a floor of silver ; and upon the wall there hung a shield of shining brass with this legend enwritten – Who entereth herein , a conqueror hath bin ; Who slayeth the dragon , the shield he shall win ; And Ethelred uplifted his mace , and struck upon the head of the dragon , which fell before him , and gave up his pesty breath , with a shriek so horrid and harsh , and withal so piercing , that Ethelred had fain to close his ears with his hands against the dreadful noise of it , the like whereof was never before heard . "" Here again I paused abruptly , and now with a feeling of wild amazement – for there could be no doubt whatever that , in this instance , I did actually hear ( although from what direction it proceeded I found it impossible to say ) a low and apparently distant , but harsh , protracted , and most unusual screaming or grating sound – the exact counterpart of what my fancy had already conjured up for the dragon's unnatural shriek as described by the romancer . Oppressed , as I certainly was , upon the occurrence of this second and most extraordinary coincidence , by a thousand conflicting sensations , in which wonder and extreme terror were predominant , I still retained sufficient presence of mind to avoid exciting , by any observation , the sensitive nervousness of my companion . I was by no means certain that he had noticed the sounds in question ; although , assuredly , a strange alteration had , during the last few minutes , taken place in his demeanor . From a position fronting my own , he had gradually brought round his chair , so as to sit with his face to the door of the chamber ; and thus I could but partially perceive his features , although I saw that his lips trembled as if he were murmuring inaudibly . His head had dropped upon his breast – yet I knew that he was not asleep , from the wide and rigid opening of the eye as I caught a glance of it in profile . The motion of his body , too , was at variance with this idea – for he rocked from side to side with a gentle yet constant and uniform sway . Having rapidly taken notice of all this , I resumed the narrative of Sir Launcelot , which thus proceeded : "" And now the champion , having escaped from the terrible fury of the dragon , bethinking himself of the brazen shield , and of the breaking up of the enchantment which was upon it , removed the carcass from out of the way before him , and approached valorously over the silver pavement of the castle to where the shield was upon the wall ; which in sooth tarried not for his full coming , but fell down at his feet upon the silver floor , with a mighty great and terrible ringing sound . "" No sooner had these syllables passed my lips , than – as if a shield of brass had indeed , at the moment , fallen heavily upon a floor of silver – I became aware of a distinct , hollow , metallic and clangorous , yet apparently muffled reverberation . Completely unnerved , I leaped to my feet ; but the measured rocking movement of Usher was undisturbed . I rushed to the chair in which he sat . His eyes were bent fixedly before him , and throughout his whole countenance there reigned a stony rigidity . But , as I placed my hand upon his shoulder , there came a strong shudder over his whole person ; a sickly smile quivered about his lips ; and I saw that he spoke in a low , hurried , and gibbering murmur , as if unconscious of my presence . Bending closely over him , I at length drank in the hideous import of his words . "" Not hear it ? – yes , I hear it , and have heard it . Long – long – long – many minutes , many hours , many days , have I heard it – yet I dared not – oh , pity me , miserable wretch that I am ! – I dared not – I dared not speak ! We have put her living in the tomb ! Said I not that my senses were acute ? I now tell you that I heard her first feeble movements in the hollow coffin . I heard them – many , many days ago – yet I dared not – I dared not speak ! And now – to-night – Ethelred – ha ! ha ! – the breaking of the hermit's door , and the death-cry of the dragon , and the clangor of the shield ! – say , rather , the rending of her coffin , and the grating of the iron hinges of her prison , and her struggles within the coppered archway of the vault ! Oh , whither shall I fly ? Will she not be here anon ? Is she not hurrying to upbraid me for my haste ? Have I not heard her footstep on the stair ? Do I not distinguish that heavy and horrible beating of her heart ? Madman ! "" – here he sprang furiously to his feet , and shrieked out his syllables , as if in the effort he were giving up his soul – "" Madman ! I tell you that she now stands without the door ! "" As if in the superhuman energy of his utterance there had been found the potency of a spell – the huge antique pannels to which the speaker pointed threw slowly back , upon the instant , their ponderous and ebony jaws . It was the work of the rushing gust – but then without those doors there did stand the lofty and enshrouded figure of the lady Madeline of Usher . There was blood upon her white robes , and the evidence of some bitter struggle upon every portion of her emaciated frame . For a moment she remained trembling and reeling to and fro upon the threshold – then , with a low , moaning cry , fell heavily inward upon the person of her brother , and in her violent and now final death-agonies , bore him to the floor a corpse , and a victim to the terrors he had anticipated . From that chamber , and from that mansion , I fled aghast . The storm was still abroad in all its wrath as I found myself crossing the old causeway . Suddenly there shot along the path a wild light , and I turned to see whence a gleam so unusual could have issued ; for the vast house and its shadows were alone behind me . The radiance was that of the full , setting , and blood-red moon , which now shone vividly through that once barely discernible fissure , of which I have before spoken as extending from the roof of the building , in a zigzag direction , to the base . While I gazed , this fissure rapidly widened – there came a fierce breath of the whirlwind – the entire orb of the satellite burst at once upon my sight – my brain reeled as I saw the mighty walls rushing asunder – there was a long tumultuous shouting sound like the voice of a thousand waters – and the deep and dank tarn at my feet closed sullenly and silently over the fragments of the "" House of Usher . """	Prose/Lyrical
1104	The Saints area of Luton , in England , is a suburb situated off the New Bedford Road about one mile north of the town centre . Its name is taken from the group of streets off Montrose Avenue that are named after early Christian saints such St Ethelbert , St Catherine and St Augustine . The area is located near Wardown Park and was an ideal location for the rich merchants and trademen commuting to the town centre each day during the first half of the twentieth century . In the area Luton Sixth Form , Barnfield College and the Luton Cricket Club are also situated . The main part of Saints is the streets surrounding St Ethelbert Avenue beginning with St. Two weekly newspapers are delivered free to all the houses in Saints . However they are not specific to Saints . They are :	Information/Explanation
915	"So we set there watching , and by and by he stirs a bit , and opened his eyes very natural , and takes a look , and says : "" Hello ! -- why , I 'm at HOME ! How 's that ? Where 's the raft ? "" "" It 's all right , "" I says . "" And JIM ? "" "" The same , "" I says , but could n't say it pretty brash . But he never noticed , but says : "" Good ! Splendid ! NOW we 're all right and safe ! Did you tell Aunty ? "" I was going to say yes ; but she chipped in and says : "" About what , Sid ? "" "" Why , about the way the whole thing was done . "" "" What whole thing ? "" "" Why , THE whole thing . There ai n't but one ; how we set the runaway nigger free -- me and Tom . "" "" Good land ! Set the run -- What IS the child talking about ! Dear , dear , out of his head again ! "" "" NO , I ai n't out of my HEAD ; I know all what I 'm talking about . We DID set him free -- me and Tom . We laid out to do it , and we DONE it . And we done it elegant , too . "" He 'd got a start , and she never checked him up , just set and stared and stared , and let him clip along , and I see it war n't no use for ME to put in . "" Why , Aunty , it cost us a power of work -- weeks of it -- hours and hours , every night , whilst you was all asleep . And we had to steal candles , and the sheet , and the shirt , and your dress , and spoons , and tin plates , and case-knives , and the warming-pan , and the grindstone , and flour , and just no end of things , and you ca n't think what work it was to make the saws , and pens , and inscriptions , and one thing or another , and you ca n't think HALF the fun it was . And we had to make up the pictures of coffins and things , and non - namous letters from the robbers , and get up and down the lightning-rod , and dig the hole into the cabin , and made the rope ladder and send it in cooked up in a pie , and send in spoons and things to work with in your apron pocket -- "" "" Mercy sakes ! "" "" -- and load up the cabin with rats and snakes and so on , for company for Jim ; and then you kept Tom here so long with the butter in his hat that you come near spiling the whole business , because the men come before we was out of the cabin , and we had to rush , and they heard us and let drive at us , and I got my share , and we dodged out of the path and let them go by , and when the dogs come they war n't interested in us , but went for the most noise , and we got our canoe , and made for the raft , and was all safe , and Jim was a free man , and we done it all by ourselves , and WAS N'T it bully , Aunty ! "" "" Well , I never heard the likes of it in all my born days ! So it was YOU , you little rapscallions , that 's been making all this trouble , and turned everybody's wits clean inside out and scared us all most to death . I 've as good a notion as ever I had in my life to take it out o ' you this very minute . To think , here I 've been , night after night , a -- YOU just get well once , you young scamp , and I lay I 'll tan the Old Harry out o ' both o ' ye ! "" But Tom , he WAS so proud and joyful , he just COULD N'T hold in , and his tongue just WENT it -- she a-chipping in , and spitting fire all along , and both of them going it at once , like a cat convention ; and she says : "" WELL , you get all the enjoyment you can out of it NOW , for mind I tell you if I catch you meddling with him again -- "" "" Meddling with WHO ? "" Tom says , dropping his smile and looking surprised . "" With WHO ? Why , the runaway nigger , of course . Who 'd you reckon ? "" Tom looks at me very grave , and says : "" Tom , did n't you just tell me he was all right ? Has n't he got away ? "" "" HIM ? "" says Aunt Sally ; "" the runaway nigger ? ' Deed he has n't . They 've got him back , safe and sound , and he 's in that cabin again , on bread and water , and loaded down with chains , till he 's claimed or sold ! "" Tom rose square up in bed , with his eye hot , and his nostrils opening and shutting like gills , and sings out to me : "" They hai n't no RIGHT to shut him up ! SHOVE ! -- and do n't you lose a minute . Turn him loose ! he ai n't no slave ; he 's as free as any cretur that walks this earth ! "" "" What DOES the child mean ? "" "" I mean every word I SAY , Aunt Sally , and if some - body do n't go , I 'LL go ."	Prose/Lyrical
684	HGV Class 2 Driver £ 18 , 400 per annum ( Full time ) If you want a rewarding career working for one of the UK's largest independent retailers , we have the ideal job opportunity for you . Our vision is to provide our customers with a comprehensive range of competitively priced , outstanding quality products . We require a HGV level 2 qualified driver to work out of our Melksham Store . Duties will be varied and include reponsibilty for : * Delivery of products to customers home . * Daily vehicle checks on the safety of the vehicle . * Ensuring all goods are loaded and unloaded in a safe working manner . * Ensuring an excellent standard of customer service is shown to all customers . Skills HGV Class 2 Clean driving license A pleasant manner and a neat and tidy appearance ( for which a uniform is supplied ) is required at all times . For an application form please contact Nicky Shipman on 01225 557093 or forward a current C.V. to : Personnel Department Leekes Ltd Beanacre Road Melksham Wiltshire SN12 8RR alternatively email mkhr@leekes.co.uk Benefits In return for working 42 . 5hours a week Tuesday to Saturday , we offer a competitive salary and an excellent benefits package including : 21 days holiday plus bank holidays Up to 20 % staff discount after qualifying period Company pension scheme after 1 years service	Promotion
1102	"From largest to smallest , the three waterfalls are the Horseshoe Falls , the American Falls and the Bridal Veil Falls . The Horseshoe Falls lie mostly on the Canadian side and the American Falls entirely on the American side , separated by Goat Island . The smaller Bridal Veil Falls are also on the American side , separated from the other waterfalls by Luna Island . The international boundary line was originally drawn through Horseshoe Falls in 1819 , but the boundary has long been in dispute due to natural erosion and construction . [ 1 ] Niagara Falls were formed when glaciers receded at the end of the Wisconsin glaciation ( the last ice age ) , and water from the newly formed Great Lakes carved a path through the Niagara Escarpment en route to the Atlantic Ocean . While not exceptionally high , the Niagara Falls are very wide . More than six million cubic feet ( 168 , 000 m 3 ) of water falls over the crest line every minute in high flow , [ 3 ] and almost four million cubic feet ( 110 , 000 m 3 ) on average . The Niagara Falls are renowned both for their beauty and as a valuable source of hydroelectric power . Balancing recreational , commercial , and industrial uses has been a challenge for the stewards of the falls since the 19th century . The Horseshoe Falls drop about 188 feet ( 57 m ) , [ 4 ] while the height of the American Falls varies between 70 and 100 feet ( 21 and 30 m ) because of the presence of giant boulders at its base . The larger Horseshoe Falls are about 2,600 feet ( 790 m ) wide , while the American Falls are 1,060 feet ( 320 m ) wide . The distance between the American extremity of the Niagara Falls and the Canadian extremity is 3,409 feet ( 1 , 039 m ) . The volume of water approaching the falls during peak flow season may sometimes be as much as 225,000 cubic feet ( 6 , 400 m 3 ) per second . [ 5 ] The average annual flow rate is 85,000 cubic feet ( 2 , 400 m 3 ) per second . [ 6 ] Since the flow is a direct function of the Lake Erie water elevation , it typically peaks in late spring or early summer . During the summer months , at least 100,000 cubic feet ( 2 , 800 m 3 ) per second of water traverses the falls , some 90 % of which goes over the Horseshoe Falls , while the balance is diverted to hydroelectric facilities . This is accomplished by employing a weir – the International Control Dam – with movable gates upstream from the Horseshoe Falls . The falls' flow is further halved at night , and , during the low tourist season in the winter , remains a minimum of 50,000 cubic feet ( 1 , 400 m 3 ) per second . Water diversion is regulated by the 1950 Niagara Treaty and is administered by the International Niagara Board of Control ( IJC ) . [ 7 ] The verdant green colour of the water flowing over the Niagara Falls is a byproduct of the estimated 60 tonnes / minute of dissolved salts and "" rock flour "" ( very finely ground rock ) generated by the erosive force of the Niagara River itself . The current rate of erosion is approximately 1 foot ( 0 . 30 m ) per year , down from a historical average of 3 feet ( 0 . 91 m ) per year . It is estimated that 50,000 years from now , even at this reduced rate of erosion , the remaining 20 miles ( 32 km ) to Lake Erie will have been undermined and the falls will cease to exist . [ 8 ] The features that became Niagara Falls were created by the Wisconsin glaciation about 10,000 years ago . The same forces also created the North American Great Lakes and the Niagara River . All were dug by a continental ice sheet that drove through the area , deepening some river channels to form lakes , and damming others with debris . [ 9 ] Scientists argue there is an old valley , buried by glacial drift , at the approximate location of the present Welland Canal . Aerial view of Niagara Falls , showing parts of Canada ( left ) and the United States ( upper right ) When the ice melted , the upper Great Lakes emptied into the Niagara River , which followed the rearranged topography across the Niagara Escarpment . In time , the river cut a gorge through the north-facing cliff , or cuesta . Because of the interactions of three major rock formations , the rocky bed did not erode evenly . The top rock formation was composed of erosion-resistant limestone and Lockport dolostone . That hard layer of stone eroded more slowly than the underlying materials . The aerial photo on the right clearly shows the hard caprock , the Lockport Formation ( Middle Silurian ) , which underlies the rapids above the falls , and approximately the upper third of the high gorge wall . Immediately below the hard-rock formation , comprising about two thirds of the cliff , lay the weaker , softer , sloping Rochester Formation ( Lower Silurian ) . This formation was composed mainly of shale , though it has some thin limestone layers . It also contains ancient fossils . In time , the river eroded the soft layer that supported the hard layers , undercutting the hard caprock , which gave way in great chunks . This process repeated countless times , eventually carving out the falls . Submerged in the river in the lower valley , hidden from view , is the Queenston Formation ( Upper Ordovician ) , which is composed of shales and fine sandstones . All three formations were laid down in an ancient sea , their differences of character deriving from changing conditions within that sea . About 10,900 years ago , the Niagara Falls was between present-day Queenston , Ontario , and Lewiston , New York , but erosion of their crest has caused the waterfalls to retreat approximately 6.8 miles ( 10 . 9 km ) southward . [ 10 ] The Horseshoe Falls , which are approximately 2,600 feet ( 790 m ) wide , have also changed their shape through the process of erosion ; evolving from a small arch , to a horseshoe bend , to the present day gigantic V. [ 11 ] Just upstream from the falls' current location , Goat Island splits the course of the Niagara River , resulting in the separation of the mostly Canadian Horseshoe Falls to the west from the American and Bridal Veil Falls to the east . Engineering has slowed erosion and recession . [ 12 ] 1837 woodcut of Falls , from États Unis d ' Amérique by Roux de Rochelle Behind and beside the Horseshoe Falls There are differing theories as to the origin of the name of the falls . According to Iroquoian scholar Bruce Trigger , "" Niagara "" is derived from the name given to a branch of the local native Neutral Confederacy , who are described as being called the "" Niagagarega "" people on several late-17th-century French maps of the area . [ 13 ] According to George R. Stewart , it comes from the name of an Iroquois town called "" Ongniaahra "" , meaning "" point of land cut in two "" . [ 14 ] Niagara Falls . This name is Mohawk . It means , according to Mrs. Kerr , the neck ; the term being first applied to the portage or neck of land , between lakes Erie and Ontario . By referring to Mr. Elliott's vocabulary , ( chapter xi ) it will be seen that the human neck , that is , according to the concrete vocabulary , his neck , is onyara . Red Jacket pronounced the word Niagara to me , in the spring of 1820 , as if written O-ne-au-ga-rah . [ 15 ] A number of figures have been suggested as first circulating an eyewitness description of Niagara Falls . The Frenchman Samuel de Champlain visited the area as early as 1604 during his exploration of Canada , and members of his party reported to him the spectacular waterfalls , which he described in his journals . The Finnish-Swedish naturalist Pehr Kalm explored the area in the early 18th century and is credited with the first scientific description of the falls . The consensus honoree for the first description is the Belgian missionary Louis Hennepin , who observed and described the falls in 1677 , earlier than Kalm , after traveling with the explorer René-Robert Cavelier , Sieur de La Salle , thus bringing the falls to the attention of Europeans . Further complicating matters , there is credible evidence the French Jesuit missionary Paul Ragueneau visited the falls some 35 years before Hennepin's visit , while working among the Huron First Nation in Canada . Jean de Brébeuf also may have visited the falls , while spending time with the Neutral Nation . [ 16 ] Man and woman on Canadian side of Niagara Falls , circa 1858 During the 19th century , tourism became popular , and by mid-century , it was the area's main industry . Theodosia Burr Alston , daughter of Vice-President Aaron Burr and her husband Joseph Alston were the first recorded couple to honeymoon there in 1801 . [ 19 ] Napoleon Bonaparte ' s brother Jérôme visited with his bride in the early 19th century . [ 20 ] In 1837 during the Caroline affair a rebel supply ship , the Caroline , was burned and sent over the falls . In March 1848 , ice blockage caused the falls to stop ; no water ( or at best a trickle ) fell for as much as 40 hours . Waterwheels stopped , mills and factories shut down for having no power . [ 21 ] Later that year demand for passage over the Niagara River led to the building of a footbridge and then Charles Ellet's Niagara Suspension Bridge . This was supplanted by German-born John Augustus Roebling ' s Niagara Falls Suspension Bridge in 1855 . After the American Civil War , the New York Central Railroad publicized Niagara Falls as a focus of pleasure and honeymoon visits . With increased railroad traffic , in 1886 , Leffert Buck replaced Roebling's wood and stone bridge with the predominantly steel bridge that still carries trains over the Niagara River today . The first steel archway bridge near the falls was completed in 1897 . Known today as the Whirlpool Rapids Bridge , it carries vehicles , trains , and pedestrians between Canada ( through Canadian Customs Border Control ) and the U.S.A. just below the falls . In 1912 much of the water coming over the American Falls froze , though there was still a trickle and the falls ran at the other two sites . In 1941 the Niagara Falls Bridge Commission completed the third current crossing in the immediate area of Niagara Falls with the Rainbow Bridge , carrying both pedestrian and vehicular traffic between the two countries and Canadian and U.S. customs for each country . After the First World War , tourism boomed again as automobiles made getting to the falls much easier . The story of Niagara Falls in the 20th century is largely that of efforts to harness the energy of the falls for hydroelectric power , and to control the development on both sides that threaten the area's natural beauty . A team from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers dammed the American Falls in June 1969 to clear rock from the base of the falls . Rockslides caused a significant buildup of rock at the bottom of the American side of the falls , and the engineers were to clean up the rock and repair some faults to prevent eventual erosion of the American side of the waterfall . A temporary dam was built to divert the flow of water to the Canadian side ; the dam measured 600 feet ( 180 m ) across and was made of nearly 30,000 tons of rock . The engineers cleared the rock debris and tested for safety , finishing the project in November of that year . Water flow was restored on November 25 , 1969 . [ 22 ] Before the late 20th century the northeastern end of the Horseshoe Falls was in the United States , flowing around the Terrapin Rocks , which was once connected to Goat Island by a series of bridges . In 1955 , the area between the rocks and Goat Island was filled in , creating Terrapin Point . [ 23 ] In the early 1980s the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers filled in more land and built diversion dams and retaining walls to force the water away from Terrapin Point . Altogether 400 feet ( 120 m ) of the Horseshoe Falls was eliminated , including 100 feet ( 30 m ) on the Canadian side . According to author Ginger Strand , the Horseshoe Falls is now entirely in Canada . [ 24 ] Other sources say "" most of "" Horseshoe Falls is in Canada . [ 25 ] Hydroelectric power dam at the Robert Moses Generating facility , Lewiston , New York The enormous energy of Niagara Falls has long been recognized as a potential source of power . The first known effort to harness the waters was in 1759 , when Daniel Joncaire built a small canal above the falls to power his sawmill . Augustus and Peter Porter purchased this area and all of American Falls in 1805 from the New York state government , and enlarged the original canal to provide hydraulic power for their gristmill and tannery . In 1853 , the Niagara Falls Hydraulic Power and Mining Company was chartered , which eventually constructed the canals that would be used to generate electricity . In 1881 , under the leadership of Jacob F. Schoellkopf , the Niagara River ' s first hydroelectric generating station was built . The water fell 86 feet ( 26 m ) and generated direct current electricity , which ran the machinery of local mills and lit up some of the village streets . The Niagara Falls Power Company , a descendant of Schoellkopf's firm , formed the Cataract Company headed by Edward Dean Adams , [ 26 ] with the intent of expanding Niagara Falls' power capacity . In 1890 , a five-member International Niagara Commission headed by Sir William Thomson among other distinguished scientists deliberated on the expansion of Niagara hydroelectric capacity based on seventeen proposals , but could not select any as the best combined project for hydraulic development and distribution . In 1893 , Westinghouse Electric ( which had built the smaller-scale Ames Hydroelectric Generating Plant near Ophir , Colorado , two years earlier ) was hired to design a system to generate alternating current on Niagara Falls , and three years after that this large-scale AC power system was created ( activated on August 26 , 1895 ) . [ 27 ] The Adams Power Plant Transformer House remains as a landmark of the original system . By 1896 , financing from moguls including J.P. Morgan , John Jacob Astor IV , and the Vanderbilts had fueled the construction of giant underground conduits leading to turbines generating upwards of 100,000 horsepower ( 75 MW ) , sent as far as Buffalo , 20 miles ( 32 km ) away . Some of the original designs for the power transmission plants were created by the Swiss firm Faesch & Piccard , which also constructed the original 5,000 HP waterwheels . Private companies on the Canadian side also began to harness the energy of the falls . The government of Ontario eventually brought power transmission operations under public control in 1906 , distributing Niagara's energy to various parts of the Canadian province . Other hydropower plants were also being built along the Niagara River . But in 1956 , disaster struck when the region's largest hydropower station was partially destroyed in a landslide . This drastically reduced power production and put tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs at stake . In 1957 , Congress passed the Niagara Redevelopment Act , which granted the New York Power Authority the right to fully develop the United States' share of the Niagara River's hydroelectric potential . [ 28 ] In 1961 , when the Niagara Falls hydroelectric project went online , it was the largest hydropower facility in the Western world . Today , Niagara is still the largest electricity producer in New York state , with a generating capacity of 2.4 gigawatts ( million kilowatts ) . Up to 375,000 U.S. gallons ( 1 , 420 m 3 ) of water a second is diverted from the Niagara River through conduits under the city of Niagara Falls to the Lewiston and Robert Moses power plants . Currently between 50 % and 75 % of the Niagara River's flow is diverted via four huge tunnels that arise far upstream from the waterfalls . The water then passes through hydroelectric turbines that supply power to nearby areas of Canada and the United States before returning to the river well past the falls . [ 29 ] This water spins turbines that power generators , converting mechanical energy into electrical energy . When electricity demand is low , the Lewiston units can operate as pumps to transport water from the lower bay back up to the plant's reservoir , allowing this water to be used again during the daytime when electricity use peaks . During peak electrical demand , the same Lewiston pumps are reversed and actually become generators , similar to those at the Moses plant . [ 28 ] To preserve Niagara Falls' natural beauty , a 1950 treaty signed by the U.S. and Canada limited water usage by the power plants . The treaty allows higher summertime diversion at night when tourists are fewer and during the winter months when there are even fewer tourists . [ 30 ] This treaty , designed to ensure an "" unbroken curtain of water "" flowing over the falls , states that during daylight time during the tourist season ( April 1 to October 31 ) there must be 100,000 cubic feet per second ( 2 , 800 m 3 / s ) of water flowing over the falls , and during the night and off-tourist season there must be 50,000 cubic feet per second ( 1 , 400 m 3 / s ) of water flowing over the falls . This treaty is monitored by the International Niagara Board of Control , using a NOAA gauging station above the falls . During winter , the Power Authority of New York works with Ontario Power Generation to prevent ice on the Niagara River from interfering with power production or causing flooding of shoreline property . One of their joint efforts is an 8 , 800-foot-long ( 2 , 700 m ) ice boom , which prevents the buildup of ice , yet allows water to continue flowing downstream . [ 28 ] The most powerful hydroelectric stations on the Niagara River are the Sir Adam Beck 1 and 2 on the Canadian side and the Robert Moses Niagara Power Plant and the Lewiston Pump Generating Plant on the American side . Together , Niagara's generating stations can produce about 4.4 gigawatts of power . In August 2005 Ontario Power Generation , which is responsible for the Sir Adam Beck stations , started a major civil engineering project , called the Niagara Tunnel Project , to increase power production by building a new 12 . 7-metre ( 42 ft ) diameter , 10 . 2-kilometre-long ( 6 . 3 mi ) water diversion tunnel . It was officially placed into service in March 2013 , helping to increase the generating complex's nameplate capacity by 150 megawatts . It did so by tapping water from farther up the Niagara River than was possible with the preexisting arrangement . The tunnel provided new hydroelectricity for approximately 160,000 homes . [ 31 ] [ 32 ] Ships can bypass Niagara Falls by means of the Welland Canal , which was improved and incorporated into the Saint Lawrence Seaway in the mid-1950s . While the seaway diverted water traffic from nearby Buffalo and led to the demise of its steel and grain mills , other industries in the Niagara River valley flourished with the help of the electric power produced by the river . However , since the 1970s the region has declined economically . Niagara Falls have long been a source of inspiration for explorers , travelers , artists , authors , filmmakers , residents and visitors , few of whom realize the falls were nearly to be solely devoted to industrial and commercial use . In the 1870s , sightseers had limited access to Niagara Falls and often had to pay for a glimpse , and industrialization threatened to carve up Goat Island to further expand commercial development . Other industrial encroachments and lack of public access led to a conservation movement in the U.S. known as Free Niagara , led by such notables as Hudson River School artist Frederic Edwin Church , landscape designer Frederick Law Olmsted , and architect Henry Hobson Richardson . Church approached Lord Dufferin , governor-general of Canada , with a proposal for international discussions on the establishment of a public park . Niagara Fälle . Les chûtes du Niagara . Niagara Falls ( circa 1832 ) : aquatint by Karl Bodmer from the book Maximilian , Prince of Wied's Travels in the Interior of North America , during the years 1832 – 1834 Goat Island was one of the inspirations for the American side of the effort . William Dorsheimer , moved by the scene from the island , brought Olmsted to Buffalo in 1868 to design a city park system and helped promote Olmsted's career . In 1879 , the New York state legislature commissioned Olmsted and James T. Gardner to survey the falls and to create the single most important document in the Niagara preservation movement , a Special Report on the preservation of Niagara Falls . The report advocated for State purchase , restoration and preservation through public ownership of the scenic lands surrounding Niagara Falls . Restoring the former beauty of the falls was described in the report as a "" sacred obligation to mankind . "" [ 34 ] In 1883 , New York Governor Grover Cleveland drafted legislation authorizing acquisition of lands for a state reservation at Niagara , and the Niagara Falls Association , a private citizens group founded in 1882 , mounted a great letter-writing campaign and petition drive in support of the park . Professor Charles Eliot Norton and Olmsted were among the leaders of the public campaign , while New York Governor Alonzo Cornell opposed . Preservationists' efforts were rewarded on April 30 , 1885 , when Governor David B. Hill signed legislation creating the Niagara Reservation , New York's first state park . New York State began to purchase land from developers , under the charter of the Niagara Reservation State Park . In the same year , the province of Ontario established the Queen Victoria Niagara Falls Park for the same purpose . On the Canadian side , the Niagara Parks Commission governs land usage along the entire course of the Niagara River , from Lake Erie to Lake Ontario . In 1887 , Olmsted and Calvert Vaux issued a supplemental report detailing plans to restore the falls . Their intent was "" to restore and conserve the natural surroundings of the Falls of Niagara , rather than to attempt to add anything thereto , "" and the report anticipated fundamental questions . How would preservationists provide access without destroying the beauty of the falls ? How would they restore natural landscapes damaged by man ? They planned a park with scenic roadways , paths and a few shelters designed to protect the landscape while allowing large numbers of visitors to enjoy the falls . [ 35 ] Commemorative statues , shops , restaurants , and a 1959 glass and metal observation tower were added later . Preservationists continue to strive to strike a balance between Olmsted's idyllic vision and the realities of administering a popular scenic attraction . [ 36 ] Preservation efforts continued well into the 20th century . J. Horace McFarland , the Sierra Club , and the Appalachian Mountain Club persuaded the United States Congress in 1906 to enact legislation to preserve the falls by regulating the waters of the Niagara River . [ 37 ] The act sought , in cooperation with the Canadian government , to restrict diversion of water , and a treaty resulted in 1909 that limited the total amount of water diverted from the falls by both nations to approximately 56,000 cubic feet ( 1 , 600 m 3 ) per second . That limitation remained in effect until 1950 . [ 38 ] American Falls "" shut off "" during erosion control efforts in 1969 Erosion control efforts have always been of extreme importance . Underwater weirs redirect the most damaging currents , and the top of the falls have also been strengthened . In June 1969 , the Niagara River was completely diverted away from the American Falls for several months through construction of a temporary rock and earth dam ( clearly visible in the photo at right ) . [ 39 ] During this time , two bodies were removed from under the falls , including a man who had been seen jumping over the falls , and the body of a woman , which was discovered once the falls dried . [ 40 ] [ 41 ] While the Horseshoe Falls absorbed the extra flow , the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers studied the riverbed and mechanically bolted and strengthened any faults they found ; faults that would , if left untreated , have hastened the retreat of the American Falls . A plan to remove the huge mound of talus deposited in 1954 was abandoned owing to cost , and in November 1969 , the temporary dam was dynamited , restoring flow to the American Falls . Even after these undertakings , Luna Island , the small piece of land between the main waterfall and the Bridal Veil , remained off limits to the public for years owing to fears that it was unstable and could collapse into the gorge . Commercial interests have continued to encroach on the land surrounding the state park , including the construction of several tall buildings ( most of them hotels ) on the Canadian side . The result is a significant alteration and urbanisation of the landscape . One study indicated it has caused the airflow near the falls to change direction . Students at the University of Guelph demonstrated , using scale models , that as air passes over the top of the new hotels it causes a breeze to roll down the south sides of the buildings and spill into the gorge below the falls , where it feeds into a whirlpool of moisture and air . The inference was that a documented rise in the number of "" mist days "" was a result of these breezes , where mist days refers to the mist plume of the falls reaching landside . In 1996 there were 29 mist days recorded , but by 2003 that number had risen to 68 . [ 42 ] Another study has discounted this opinion and linked mist production to the difference in air and water temperature at the falls . However , this study does not offer opinion as to why mist days have been increasing , just that the hotel breezes are an unlikely cause . [ 43 ] In 2013 New York State began an effort to renovate The Sisters Islands located on Goat Island . New York State used funds from the re-licensing of the New York Power Authority hydroelectric plant downriver in Lewiston , New York , to rebuild walking paths on the Three Sisters Islands and to plant native vegetation on the islands . The state also renovated the area around Prospect Point at the brink of the American Falls in the state park . In January 2016 , it was announced the American Falls would again be de-watered to repair two bridges that are near collapse . The de-watering is envisioned to occur in a few years , and will last at least four months , depending on what plan is adopted . [ 40 ] In October 1829 , Sam Patch , who called himself "" the Yankee Leapster "" , jumped from a high tower into the gorge below the falls and survived ; this began a long tradition of daredevils trying to go over the falls . On October 24 , 1901 , 63-year-old Michigan school teacher Annie Edson Taylor became the first person to go over the falls in a barrel as a publicity stunt ; she survived , bleeding , but otherwise unharmed . Soon after exiting the barrel , she said , "" No one ought ever do that again . "" [ 44 ] Before Taylor's attempt , on October 19 a domestic cat named Iagara was sent over the Horseshoe Falls in her barrel to test its strength . Contrary to rumours at the time , the cat survived the plunge unharmed and later posed with Taylor in photographs . [ 45 ] Since Taylor's historic ride , 14 people have intentionally gone over the falls in or on a device , despite her advice . Some have survived unharmed , but others have drowned or been severely injured . Survivors face charges and stiff fines , as it is illegal , on both sides of the border , to attempt to go over the falls . In 1918 , there was a near disaster when a barge , known locally as the Niagara Scow , working upriver broke its tow , and almost plunged over the falls . Fortunately , the two workers on board saved themselves by grounding the vessel on rocks just short of the falls . [ 46 ] In the "" Miracle at Niagara "" , Roger Woodward , a seven-year-old American boy , was swept over the Horseshoe Falls protected only by a life vest on July 9 , 1960 , as two tourists pulled his 17-year-old sister Deanne from the river only 20 feet ( 6 . 1 m ) from the lip of the Horseshoe Falls at Goat Island . [ 48 ] Minutes later , Woodward was plucked from the roiling plunge pool beneath the Horseshoe Falls after grabbing a life ring thrown to him by the crew of the Maid of the Mist boat . [ 49 ] [ 50 ] On July 2 , 1984 , Canadian Karel Soucek from Hamilton , Ontario , plunged over the Horseshoe Falls in a barrel with only minor injuries . Soucek was fined $ 500 for performing the stunt without a license . In 1985 , he was fatally injured while attempting to re-create the Niagara drop at the Houston Astrodome . His aim was to climb into a barrel hoisted to the rafters of the Astrodome and to drop 180 feet ( 55 m ) into a water tank on the floor . After his barrel released prematurely , it hit the side of the tank and he died the next day from his injuries . [ 51 ] In August 1985 , Steve Trotter , an aspiring stuntman from Rhode Island , became the youngest person ever ( age 22 ) and the first American in 25 years to go over the falls in a barrel . Ten years later , Trotter went over the falls again , becoming the second person to go over the falls twice and survive . It was also the second-ever "" duo "" ; Lori Martin joined Trotter for the barrel ride over the falls . They survived the fall but their barrel became stuck at the bottom of the falls , requiring a rescue . [ 52 ] On September 28 , 1989 , Niagara natives Peter DeBernardi ( age 42 ) and Jeffery James Petkovich ( age 25 ) became the first "" team "" to make it over the falls in a two-person barrel . The stunt was conceived by DeBenardi , who wanted to discourage youth from following in his path of addictive drug use . The pair emerged shortly after going over with minor injuries and were charged with performing an illegal stunt under the Niagara Parks Act . [ 53 ] On September 27 , 1993 , John "" David "" Munday , of Caistor Centre , Ontario , completed his second journey over the falls . [ 54 ] Kirk Jones of Canton , Michigan , became the first known person to survive a plunge over the Horseshoe Falls without a flotation device on October 20 , 2003 . While it is still not known whether Jones was determined to commit suicide , he survived the 16-story fall with only battered ribs , scrapes , and bruises . [ 55 ] [ 56 ] A second person survived an unprotected trip over the Horseshoe Falls on March 11 , 2009 , and when rescued from the river , was reported to be suffering from severe hypothermia and a large wound to his head . His identity has not been released . Eyewitnesses reported seeing the man intentionally enter the water . [ 57 ] [ 58 ] On May 21 , 2012 , an unidentified man in his early 40s became the third person to survive an unprotected trip over the Horseshoe Falls . Eyewitness reports show he "" deliberately jumped "" into the Niagara River after climbing over a railing . [ 59 ] [ 60 ] Blondin carrying his manager , Harry Colcord , on a tightrope [ 61 ] Other daredevils have made crossing the gorge their goal , starting with the successful passage by Jean François "" Blondin "" Gravelet , who crossed Niagara Gorge in 1859 . [ 62 ] Between 1859 and 1896 a wire-walking craze emerged , resulting in frequent feats over the river below the falls . One inexperienced walker slid down his safety rope . Only one man fell to his death , at night and under mysterious circumstances , at the anchoring place for his wire . [ 63 ] These tightrope walkers drew huge crowds to witness their exploits . Their wires ran across the gorge , near the current Rainbow Bridge , not over the waterfall itself . Among the many was Ontario's William Hunt , who billed himself as "" The Great Farini "" and competed with Blondin in performing outrageous stunts over the gorge . [ 64 ] On three occasions Blondin carried his manager , Harry Colcord , on his back – on the final time being watched by the Prince of Wales . [ 63 ] Maria Spelterini walking a tightrope across Niagara Gorge , from the United States to Canada , with her feet in peach baskets , 1876 [ 65 ] In 1876 , 23-year-old Italian Maria Spelterini was the only woman ever to cross the Niagara Gorge on a tightrope , making four crossings over 18 days . On July 12 , she crossed wearing peach baskets strapped to her feet , on July 19 blind-folded , on July 22 with her ankles and wrists manacled and finally on July 26 . [ 64 ] Tightrope crossings of the falls ended – by law – in 1896 , when James Hardy crossed . [ 66 ] On June 15 , 2012 , high wire artist Nik Wallenda became the first person to walk across the falls in 116 years , after receiving special permission from both governments . [ 67 ] The full length of his tightrope was 1,800 feet ( 550 m ) . [ 68 ] Wallenda crossed near the brink of the Horseshoe Falls , unlike walkers who had crossed farther downstream . According to Wallenda , it was the longest unsupported tightrope walk in history . [ 69 ] He carried his passport on the trip and was required to present it upon arrival on the Canadian side of the falls . [ 66 ] Already a huge tourist attraction and favorite spot for honeymooners , Niagara Falls visits rose sharply in 1953 after the release of Niagara , a movie starring Marilyn Monroe and Joseph Cotten . In 1956 , the Woody Woodpecker series released the episode Niagara Fools . Later in the 20th century , the falls was a featured location in the 1980 movie Superman II , and was itself the subject of a popular IMAX movie , Niagara : Miracles , Myths and Magic . [ 70 ] Much of the episode "" Return of the Technodrome "" in the 1987 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles cartoon series takes place near the Niagara Falls and its hydroelectric plant . [ 71 ] Illusionist David Copperfield performed a trick in which he appeared to travel over the Horseshoe Falls in 1990 . The falls , or more particularly , the tourist-supported complex near the falls , was the setting of the short-lived Canadian-shot US television show Wonderfalls in early 2004 . More recently , location footage of the falls was shot in October 2006 to portray "" World's End "" of the movie Pirates of the Caribbean : At World's End . [ 72 ] Composer Ferde Grofé was commissioned by the Niagara Falls Power Generation project in 1960 to compose the Niagara Falls Suite in honor of the completion of the first stage of hydroelectric work at the falls . Each movement is dedicated to the falls , or to the history of the greater Buffalo region . In 1997 , composer Michael Daugherty composed Niagara Falls , a piece for concert band inspired by the falls . The Niagara Falls area features as the base camp for a German aerial invasion of the United States in the H. G. Wells novel The War in the Air . Many poets have been inspired to write about the falls . Among them was the Cuban poet José Maria Heredia , who wrote the poem "" Niagara "" . There are commemorative plaques on both sides of the falls recognising the poem . In the original 1920s and 1930s Buck Rogers stories and newspaper cartoons , Buck Rogers , in his adventures in the 25th century that take place on Earth , helps in the fight for a free Northern America from the liberated zone around Niagara , New York ( which by then has grown to a large metropolis – the capital of the liberated zone – that includes Niagara Falls , New York , Niagara Falls , Ontario , and Buffalo , New York ) , against the Red Mongol Empire , a Chinese empire of the future which in the 25th century rules most of North America . [ 73 ] Peak visitor traffic occurs in the summertime , when Niagara Falls are both a daytime and evening attraction . From the Canadian side , floodlights illuminate both sides of the falls for several hours after dark ( until midnight ) . The number of visitors in 2007 was expected to total 20 million , and by 2009 the annual rate was expected to top 28 million tourists . [ 74 ] The oldest and best known tourist attraction at Niagara Falls is the Maid of the Mist boat cruise , named for an ancient Ongiara Indian mythical character , which has carried passengers into the rapids immediately below the falls since 1846 . Cruise boats operate from boat docks on both sides of the falls . [ 75 ] [ 76 ] From the U.S. side , the American Falls can be viewed from walkways along Prospect Point Park , which also features the Prospect Point Observation Tower and a boat dock for the Maid of the Mist . Goat Island offers more views of the falls and is accessible by foot and automobile traffic by bridge above the American Falls . From Goat Island , the Cave of the Winds is accessible by elevator and leads hikers to a point beneath Bridal Veil Falls . Also on Goat Island are the Three Sisters Islands , the Power Portal where a huge statue of Nikola Tesla ( the inventor whose patents for the AC induction motor and other devices for AC power transmission helped make the harnessing of the falls possible ) can be seen , and a walking path that enables views of the rapids , the Niagara River , the gorge , and all of the falls . Most of these attractions lie within the Niagara Falls State Park . [ 77 ] The Niagara Scenic Trolley offers guided trips along the American Falls and around Goat Island . Panoramic and aerial views of the falls can also be viewed from the Flight of Angels helium balloon ride , or by helicopter . The Niagara Gorge Discovery Center showcases the natural and local history of Niagara Falls and the Niagara Gorge . A casino and luxury hotel was opened in Niagara Falls , New York , by the Seneca Indian tribe . The Seneca Niagara Casino & Hotel occupies the former Niagara Falls Convention Center . The new hotel is the first addition to the city's skyline since completion of the United Office Building in the 1920s . [ 77 ] [ 78 ] On the Canadian side , Queen Victoria Park features manicured gardens , platforms offering views of both the American and Horseshoe Falls , and underground walkways leading into observation rooms that yield the illusion of being within the falling waters . The observation deck of the nearby Skylon Tower offers the highest view of the falls , and in the opposite direction gives views as far as Toronto . Along with the Minolta Tower ( formerly the Seagrams Tower and the Konica Minolta Tower , now called the Tower Hotel ) , it is one of two towers in Canada with a view of the falls . [ 79 ] Along the Niagara River , the Niagara River Recreational Trail runs 35 miles ( 56 km ) from Fort Erie to Fort George , and includes many historical sites from the War of 1812 . [ 80 ] View of American , Bridal Veil ( the single fall to the right of the American Falls ) and Horseshoe Falls from Canada with the Maid of the Mist boat near the falls , 2007 ^ Vanderwilt , Dirk ( 2007 ) . Niagara Falls : With the Niagara Parks , Clifton Hill , and Other Area Attractions , p. 35 . Channel Lake , Inc. , ISBN 978-0-9792043-7-1 ^ Honor for E.D. Adams : Engineers to Award the John Fritz Medal for Niagara Development . ( March 17 , 1926 ) . The New York Times ( 1857 – Current file ) , 6 . ProQuest Historical Newspapers The New York Times ( 1851 – 2004 ) database . ( Document ID : 119063396 ) . ^ Asteroid 12382 Niagara Falls was named after the falls . ^ Laura Wood Roper , FLO : A Biography of Frederick Law Olmsted . Baltimore : Johns Hopkins University Press ( 1973 ) , pp. 378 – 81 ^ New York ( State ) . Commissioners of state reservation at Niagara . Albany : The Argus Company , printers , 1887 ^ The New York State Preservationist , Vol. 6 , No. 1 , Fall – Winter 2002 , "" Falling for Niagara "" , pp. 14 , 15 ^ U.S. Statutes at Large , Vol. 34 , Part 1 , Chap . 3621 , pp. 626 – 28 . "" An Act For the control and regulation of the waters of Niagara River , for the preservation of Niagara Falls , and for other purposes . "" H.R. 18024 ; Public Act No. 367 ^ This remarkable event had occurred only once before , when an upstream ice jam stopped almost all water flow over Niagara Falls on March 29 , 1848 . ^ Thompson , Carolyn ( July 2 , 2000 ) . "" Seeking Out Death -- Or Defying It : For Niagara Falls , It 's a Busy Season for Tourism , Suicide and Daredevils "" . Sun-Sentinel . Fort Lauderdale . p. 3A . ^ Parish , Charles Carlin , Queen of the Mist : The Story of Annie Edson Taylor , First Person Ever to Go Over Niagara Falls and Survive ( Empire State Books , Interlaken NY , 1987 , ISBN 0-932334-89-X ) , p. 55 . ^ The Collected Works of Buck Rogers in the 25th Century 1969 Chelsea House – Introduction by Ray Bradbury – Reprints of the original Buck Rogers comic strips ^ "" Maid of the Mist "" . Maid of the Mist Steamboat Company , Ltd. Retrieved March 27 , 2007 . U.S. Army Corps of Engineers The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers completely blocked the flow of water over the American Falls in 1969 . Niagara Power Vista – visitors center for the Niagara Falls hydro electric plant with displays , a scaled down map of the project , and documentaries on construction , situated atop the cement wall of the plant on the Niagara Gorge ."	Information/Explanation
795	Scientific Motivation : We will determine representative structures of human members from protein families of importance in different metabolic routes . These pathways comprise synthesis and catabolism of lipids , steroids , retinoids , carbohydrates , nucleotides , cofactors and amino acids . A major focus is on oxidoreductases of different superfamilies , but other selected enzymes or binding proteins are targeted as well . Proteins from different classes involved in synthetic and catabolic routes of the building blocks mentioned above are involved in a large array of inherited diseases , hence structural analysis will give insights into their molecular mechanisms . Furthermore , several enzymes involved in these metabolic pathways constitute drug targets for the treatment of a variety of metabolic disorders , such as diabetes , osteoporosis and in oncology therapy . Techniques Used : This biology group is responsible for functional expression , characterization , crystallization and structure determination of targets described above . Together with the biotechnology , biophysical and x-ray teams we will process the targets and determine their structures , with overlapping and integrated activities among the teams . Techniques employed are primarily development of heterologous expression systems and purification strategies , development of functional assays , crystallization , and furthermore functional analysis by biophysical methods ( mainly spectroscopy , but also mass spectrometry , microcalorimetry and analytical ultracentrifugation ) .	Information/Explanation
1045	Annual Report 2000 Appendix C : Statutory references to DPTAC Section 125 and Schedule 5 to the Transport Act 1985 : the legislation which established the Committee and sets out its remit and general procedures . Section 70 of the Railways Act 1993 ( as amended by paragraph 28 of Schedule 17 to the Transport Act 2000 ) : requires the Strategic Rail Authority to consult DPTAC on his code of practice for protecting the interests of disabled rail users . Part V of the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 : the Secretary of State has a statutory duty to consult DPTAC on any proposed vehicle accessibility regulations and before deciding whether to grant exemptions from accessibility regulations made under Part V in respect of taxis , public service vehicles and rail vehicles . The Scotland Act 1998 ( Cross-Border Public Authorities ) ( Specifications ) Order 1999 ( 1999 no . 1319 ) specifies DPTAC as a cross-border public authority for the purposes of the Scotland Act 1998 . Section 142 of the Greater London Authority Act 1999 requires the Mayor of London to consult DPTAC when preparing or revising his or her transport strategy . For the purposes of Part 1 Section 3 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 , DPTAC is defined as a public authority and listed in Schedule 1 . The Transport Act 2000 Section 145 and 151 requires the Secretary of State , the National Assembly for Wales and the Greater London Authority to consult DPTAC before issuing guidance to travel concession authorities on the provision of half-price travel to disabled people . Section 248 of the Transport Act 2000 requires the Secretary of State to consult DPTAC before issuing an order granting exemption to railway operators from providing substitute road services to disabled passengers .	Legal
1522	"The squeal of tires . The sickening sound of metal grinding against metal as you lurch forward in the driver's seat . As you climb out of the auto , you 're shaken – but fortunately you and the driver who hit you are not injured . Regrettably , the identical is not accurate for your car . Even soon after you endure the hassle of dealing with insurance organizations and the inconvenience of taking your car in for repair , the bottom line is that your car just is n't worth as considerably . "" The resale worth of a automobile with an accident history is considerably significantly less than a comparable car that 's never ever been in an accident , "" says Omar Quddus , President and Co-Founder of Advocate Auto Claims LLC ( www.advocateautoclaims.com ) . This phenomenon is named "" diminished value , "" and the at-fault or third party's insurance coverage firm has an obligation to compensate the driver who was not at fault for this distinction in industry value . "" Insurance coverage firms are necessary to restore a automobile to its pre-loss situation and value , "" says Quddus . "" Regrettably , most buyers are not conscious that they are entitled to diminished value compensation – and insurance companies do not volunteer that data . "" That 's the reason Quddus is on a mission to educate consumers about their rights , and why Advocate Auto Claims pursues diminished worth claims on behalf of drivers who were n't at fault in accidents . "" Even when buyers are conscious of the diminished worth issue , they are typically ill-equipped to handle the roadblocks that an insurance coverage organization will throw at them , "" he says . "" Every single insurance organization has its personal internal procedures , but these procedures can vary from area to region . "" Similarly , the laws and regulations governing diminished value differ significantly from state to state . The maze of regulations and loopholes , as effectively as the harsh stance taken by auto insurance firms against diminished value claims leaves consumers with handful of choices . "" Consumers might be involved in an accident after or twice in a lifetime they merely do n't have the resources and knowledge to get the compensation they deserve , "" says Quddus . This is precisely why the owners of Advocate Auto Claims , who have a lot more than 10 years of expertise operating with diminished worth claims on behalf of fleet owners and rental vehicle agencies , have opened their doors to consumers . While drivers can spend out of pocket for a car inspection or a report to substantiate their claim , and an lawyer may pursue such a claim in conjunction with a individual injury case , Quddus' firm handles each aspect of diminished value claims – and does so on a contingency basis . "" The process of establishing diminished value and then negotiating the appropriate compensation is both an art and a science , "" Quddus says . "" We pride ourselves on our potential to get final results , and never anticipate to be paid till you do . """	Promotion
704	About Trimetals Who are Trimetals ? Trimetals are Europe's leading manufacturer of superior quality metal garden buildings and have been established for over 35 years . We produce a wide range of Sheds and Stores which are aimed at the high quality or professional end of the market - we do not sell the usual cheap and flimsy substitutes or plastic alternatives that are available from many major DIY stores . Our products are built to last and feature unique patented designs to maximise strength , rigidity and practicality , offering you , our customers , real value for money . The main sales area for our products is for general garden use but we also supply many thousands of buildings per year for other applications such as to mobile home parks , major house building organisations , sports / golf clubs and for use in schools . Trimetals buildings have won various awards and have received many commendations given at exhibitions in the UK and abroad . We have also had our products tested and recommended by a variety of independent magazines and publications . We also export our products and have recently been honoured by the EU by being one of only two companies selected to represent Britain at the major Construction Trade Fair in Japan and as a result we have now started to export our products to the far east which is in addition to the many European and Middle Eastern countries we currently supply . We are and have been for many years a Lloyds quality approved company and are certified to Lloyds ISO 9002 and more recently to Lloyds ISO 9001 2000 - this basically means that all our company procedures are constantly monitored to ensure our customers receive an excellent level of service and that our products have been checked for quality at all stages of production through to final dispatch and delivery . But what do our customers say ? - we supply a customer feedback form with each product and results of these for 2004 / 2005 are as follows : HOW WOULD YOU RATE THE QUALITY OF THE PRODUCT OVER 90 % OF PEOPLE SAID THAT THE QUALITY WAS EITHER GOOD OR EXCELLENT . HOW WOULD YOU RATE THE PRODUCTS VALUE FOR MONEY OVER 96 % PEOPLE SAID THEY WERE SATISFIED WITH THE PRODUCTS VALUE FOR MONEY AND OVER 70 % STATED THAT THE VALUE WAS EITHER GOOD OR EXCELLENT . WAS YOUR PRODUCT RECEIVED WHEN REQUESTED 85 % OF PEOPLE SAID THAT THE DELIVERY WAS RECEIVED WHEN REQUESTED WITH OVER 70 % STATING THAT OUR DELIVERY SERVICE WAS EITHER GOOD OR EXCELLENT . HOW WOULD YOU RATE YOUR INITIAL CONTACT WITH TRIMETALS STAFF OVER 90 % OF PEOPLE SAID THAT OUR STAFF ARE EITHER GOOD OR EXCELLENT WERE ANY PRODUCT QUERIES ANSWERED PROMPTLY AND EFFICIENTLY 90 % OF PEOPLE SAID THAT OUR STAFF WERE EITHER GOOD OR EXCELLENT ( A full analysis of this feedback data is available on request ) We hope that you now have a good understanding of our company and the commitment we have to supplying you with the very best quality products at value for money prices .	Promotion
266	( Two varieties : mugo , eastern and uncinata , western ) Dwarf mountain pine This shrub is a native of the mountains around the Mediterranean basin . It has been widely planted in parks and gardens throughout northern Europe and America Like most pines it is host to many phytophagous species such as the pine sawfly . It also hosts adelgids - woolly aphids which are eaten by several species of ladybird . Thus the interest on this site ! All pine ( Pinus ) species have their attractions including our native P. sylvestris . Ladybirds on pines include the eyed , striped , cream-streaked and 18-spots . They are often quite numerous but are not very commonly observed since tend to stay up in the foliage at the tops of trees . Impressive , even beautiful things they may be , but only the most dedicated entomologist would be willing or able to climb a mature pine tree ( right ) . Pinus mugo has the advantage that it is seldom over 2m tall and the non-athlete can examine branch tips with ease . This shrub in Sheffield bore five species during 2004 - the best ladybird plant in the garden . This included the conifer specialist eighteen-spot and cream-streaked ladybirds as well as more generalist species . The most numerous ladybird was the cream-streaked ladybird Harmonia quadripunctata . The sixteen-spotted form ( left ) is hardly cryptic against pine needles although perhaps more so against developing cones and branch tips ( right ) ? In sunlight , the spotless form ( below far right ) seems to fit in better ? However , the larvae and pupae ( below and below left ) seem to blend much better with their environment . This year ( 2005 ) merely a seven-spot has been seen from early September . Not moving and clearly visible - presumably it is just seeking shelter from the weather under a developing cone . Will it stay there all winter - the protection is not great ?	Information/Explanation
1408	"Recap – Burn Notice 4.03 "" Made Man "" This episode of Burn Notice starts where we expect to see our spies have a meeting .... a bar . Sam and Fiona begin to argue that Jesse is not fit for their team while Michael gives him the benefit of the doubt . Jesse shows up during the argument with drinks and soon changes Sams mind about being on the team . Jesse begins to talk to the others about why he came to Miami and tells them that he has information about some illegal weapons trade but his only source on this is from a person he calls "" Cobra "" . Sam is not enthused by the name . Michael decides that maybe this is worth investigating . The gang arrives at the dock to scope out what exactly they are dealing with . They find it is tough to get any info from any of the dock workers about where the ships with the weapons have come from . While talking with Fiona and Michael , Jesse notices a dock security guard getting beat up . He says he has seen this before and wants to finally end this . Michael tells Jesse it 's not worth blowing cover to help a civilian . Jesse does n't listen and goes over to help . Through a fake car accident story , Jesse gets the security guard to safety and disarms the two men who were beating up the guard . Michael and Fiona find Jesse talking with Hank ( security guard ) . Hank tells them that the men who attacked him work for the mob and have been pressuring him and other guards to steal items from containers at the dock . Hank says the police have no effect , as one guard who went to the police was soon murdered . Jesse quickly wants to help out and Michael reluctantly decides to make Hank the new client . While walking to the car , Michael berates Jesse for his fast acting with no planning style of work and Michael believes that Hank is being put at risk while he is being helped by the spies . Jesse disagrees . Not wanting to argue , Michael decides the best way to attack the situation is to get some information on the mob they are dealing with . Cut to a bar downtown , Sam shows Michael the information he obtained from a "" police buddy "" on mob members in Miami . The bar turns out to be the mobs place to drink . Michael is surprised to see a mob bar look so normal . We see a man come walking out of the bar and Sam informs Michael this is Tony Carro , a mob boss who runs some business in Florida for a mob in New York . Sam quickly runs through Tonys profile and sees that Tony's record is for the most part clean . Back at the Westen house , Jesse and Michaels Mother , Madeline , are cooking up some food . Madeline remarks that she knows nothing about Jesse . She makes observations that Jesse must have been a government worker as he never parks his car in the same place and always exits the house through a different door . Michael enters the house and Jesse tells Madeline that Michael is there for him . Madeline leaves slightly angry . The two men begin to talk about the plan to take down the mob in Miami . In Michael's apartment , Michael begins creating a listening device out of gum , a tissue , and some lint ( Michael , in a voice-over , states that the best "" bug "" is something that people do n't want to touch ) . Sam enters with an alias for Michael to use during the plan . The identity he is using is a suspended FBI agent named Ned Gorden . Sam has everything that Michael needs to assume the identity , to which Michael seems very pleased . We next see Michael getting escorted into the mob bar to see Tony . Before talking to Michael , Tony is yelling at a store owner who is selling the stolen merchandise Tony gets . The owner is late on some money and Tony is threatening to kill him if not payed back . Before leaving , the owner agrees to pay by the afternoon . Michael is brought in to see Tony . Tony states he has seen Michael standing outside for many days . Michael asks Tony how much info on Tony would be worth if Michael told others . Michael is thrown to the table and it 's there Tonys guard pulls out Michael's fake FBI badge . Michael creates the cover story as being a drunk . Tony agrees to meet with Michael at 4 : 00 . Before leaving , Tony tells Michael to never return to the bar again . Cut to the underside of a bridge . Michael is waiting for Tony to show up while Jesse and Fiona keep watch . We see two men approach , but neither of them are Tony . One of the men explains that they know Michael is not Agent Gorden and the men begin to attack Michael . Fiona and Jesse argue over taking a shot to kill or not kill the men . Fiona does not want to shoot . Michael quickly cripples the man holding his arms and uses that man to disarm the other man with a gun . Michael walks away while Jesse remarks that Michael can really hold his own . Outside of the mob bar , Sam , Michael and Jesse watch Tony from inside Michael's car . Sam shows Michael a tape of how Michael was ousted as not being a FBI agent . Michael questions why they are back at the bar then . Sam points to a man talking to Tony . His name is Gio and he is part of the mob family that works in New York . Gio is down here to "" squeeze "" Tony . The three men listen to Gio and Tony argue and decide to push Tony in a direction that will get Tony out of Hanks way for good . It 's then we are reintroduced to an old Sam character named "" Chuck Finley "" . Jesse meets with Hank and Hank states that he ca n't stay away from work too much longer as people are starting to ask questions . Jesse calms Hank by saying that everything will be fine and that it 's being taken care of . Hank in favor gives Jesse a stack of papers from the dock showing every shipment from Nigeria in the last few months . Back at the Westen house , Jesse is sifting through the paper for clues as to who "" Cobra "" is . Madeline enters the room to giver Jesse some items that Michael does n't use anymore . Madeline finds a picture of Jesse's Mother lying on the bed . The two begin talking about Jesse's mom and Jesse tells the story of how his mom died when he was 9 . Jesse receives a call from Sam , and Jesse agrees to meet with Sam in a few minutes . Tony is sitting in a nice night club . Tony makes his way to the bathroom and shoos his guards away . In the bathroom room , Sam has fogged the mirrors and locked all the toilet stalls but one . As Tony goes to sit on the open toilet , Sam attacks Tony and sedates him to the point of unconsciousness . Jesse and Sam quickly change Tonys clothing and whisk him out of the bar , claiming he is a man who ca n't hold his alcohol . We next see Sam sharpening a butcher's knife while Tony tells Sam who he is . Tony's threats do n't scare Sam and the idea of $ 20 , 000 means nothing to Sam . Sam berates Tony for yelling and tells Tony he is Chuck . Tony declares that he can get the money as long as "" Chuck "" does n't hurt him . Tony states he can take 5 million off the dock in one day . He says that he will even cut Sam into the heist . Jordan Cramer is a college graduate with an associates degree in Criminal Justice . He currently lives in Atlanta and when not writing for TVOvermind , he works at Panera Bread . Favorite Shows include ; It 's Always Sunny , Parks and Recreation , How I Met Your Mother , Raising Hope , The Office , Community , and The League . You can contact him via Twitter @ I_Am_Cramer"	Prose/Lyrical
1520	"With the Alsa-Max PURI-027 you will experience a whole new world of paint delivery and efficiency . By eliminating the static charge on the surface as well as in your actual air supply you will see an immediate difference . Without static , paint particles are able to align perfectly on the surface ( see below ) meaning less material needed for complete coverage essentially achieving in 2 coats what would normally take 3-4 coats . Aside from the coverage , by "" IONIZING "" your air supply you can now eliminate dust and debris from the surface of plastics etc. by simply blowing it with air , once the surface has been "" blown "" off the surface is now "" IONIZED "" and static free meaning the dust and debris ca n't return . As you can see by using the Alsa-Max PURI-027 you will use less material , have a much cleaner finish , experience faster dry time and above all achieve a better finish to every project ."	Promotion
1621	"The Unlimited All-Stars was originally created in 1990 to preserve the then dwindling open classes on the dirt tracks in Western Pennsylvania . For quite a while , the Unlimited All-Stars concept was only applied there . In 2001 the concept was tested on tracks in Florida . As a result of success there it later spread to Arizona , Georgia and the Carolinas . It has continued to grow , and as of the beginning of the 2012 season , there are at least 21 officially recognized circuits across the country , and more are sure to come . To read the complete history of the Unlimited All-Stars concept click on "" History "" in the directory above . The Unlimited All-Stars ( UAS ) is a national club that represents a single class or division for kart racing that combines a wide variety of engine types . Those engines are limited only by their maximum displacement ; otherwise there are virtually no limits to permissible modifications . The class was developed primarily for competition on short dirt oval tracks although the rules have been applied successfully on other tracks as well . Obviously , karts such as these are capable of a very high level of performance and therefore the class is intended only for experienced drivers who have proven themselves capable of safely competing in a sportsman like manner . Due to its nature , the Unlimited All-Stars is not a class that everyone will want to participate in ; it 's definitely not intended for everyone . Racers who are eager to try new and sometimes radical technical ideas feel right at home in the UAS . The rules contain a set of parameters , and emphasize safety but were intentionally written to allow and encourage innovation . No matter what class other racers participate in , they all head for the fence and bleachers when UAS guys fire up their engines . It is the kart division that has the potential to fill the stands with ticket buying fans . Recognizing what appears to be a strangle hold that some manufacturers appear to have over many karting organizations , the UAS refuses to adopt any rule or policy that mandates that any particular brand of product be used by participants . Ingenuity / Camaraderie / Sportsmanship Above all , karting is supposed to be fun , not just for the winner but for everyone who participates . Sportsmanship is the hallmark of the UAS . Of course winning , even dominating the competition is indeed the goal , but in the UAS there is no honor in winning if the winner's competitors despise him or her . The attitude of a true UAS competitor will not allow him to take advantage of a "" cheap shot "" to advance in position because just as important as winning is , it is the camaraderie with fellow competitors that keeps them coming back , race after race . It is demanded that track officials are especially firm with UAS competitors and they are to use the black flag when it is called for . UAS regional administrators are expected to communicate with drivers who may not be driving in an acceptable manner and coach them to improve . They are also expected to promote a high level of camaraderie among their members . There are many successful racers in other divisions who had lost the challenge and thrill that kart racing once provided them . The UAS , with the innovation that it allows and encourages , has renewed their interest in kart racing . The UAS , as an organization , does not usually promote events on their own , rather they work with promoters who see the promotional value of the UAS to organize events . By UAS policy , individual promoters have the ultimate responsibility of administering events . When the UAS drivers are placed on the card for an event , they are the guests of that particular race track . With the exception of post race technical inspection the UAS does not typically provide any race officials . The Unlimited All-Stars provides the promoter with a suggested set of policies and rules , negotiates pay-offs , schedules races , provides recognition for participants and publicizes events . In essence , the UAS was originally set-up as a representative primarily for drivers and race teams . Awards and Recognition One of the primary functions of the Unlimited All-Stars is to establish a central contact point for managing the affairs of the UAS participants . In 2007 a National Ranking system was put into place to allow UAS racers from across the country to see how they measure up in relationship to their peers . In 2008 drivers who wished to be included in the national ranking system were required to become UAS members . This allowed an awards fund to be established to provide prizes and recognition for the members . In 2010 a new point system was established that included a national season concluding Grand National event that racers wishing to aspire to the National Champion title must compete in . Please post this to any forums you may frequent . Please be aware that nominations must be made on this facebook page or by e-mail . We will not be monitoring all of the different forums where this may wind up ."	Information/Explanation
388	Deafness : the facts Hearing aids How do I get a hearing aid on the NHS ? How do I get a hearing aid on the NHS ? If you are having difficulty hearing and think you might benefit from hearing aids , visit your family doctor , who may refer you to an audiology ( hearing aid ) department depending on local arrangements and what other symptoms you may have . Do n't forget to mention all possible relevant symptoms to your GP and specialist , for example , if you are experiencing noises in the ear or having difficulties with balance . All NHS ENT and Audiology departments will have a waiting period . If your GP refers you to an audiologist , you will go on a waiting list for an appointment . UK citizens and residents are entitled to free hearing aids through the NHS . However , if you are in a hurry to get aids , or want a particular type of aid that is not available through the NHS , an alternative is to go to a private hearing aid dispenser or audiology department . Some NHS audiology clinics have links with private clinics and may be able to offer guidance , or you can contact the Deafness Research UK Information Service . Before your first audiology appointment It is best to take the person you have the most conversation with along too , particularly if you are worried about being able to hear the audiologist . This will help the audiologist adjust the hearing aid to the voice you hear most often , and you will both understand the process involved in getting , using and adjusting to , your hearing aid . Ask the audiologist to speak slowly and more clearly if you can not hear them . Think about which situations you have trouble hearing in . For example , one-to-one , watching television , hearing when you are with several friends , certain types of voices ? What to expect at your first appointment It will be explained what tests you are having . It will be explained if you need a hearing aid in one or both ears and why . Your audiologist will write down the name and type of hearing aid you are getting , and whether it is a digital or analogue aid . Your audiologist will show you your audiogram and explain the extent of your hearing loss . Your audiologist will show you how to care for your aid and how it works . Initial testing At your first audiology appointment , your medical history will be taken , your ears will be examined and your hearing tested . The main test is to find out the quietest sounds that you can hear at different pitches or frequencies , presented either over earphones or via a vibrator attached to your head . Additionally , a detailed questionnaire of your listening needs will normally be carried out . These simple tests will determine whether you need one hearing aid or two . If you need an aid , an impression of your ear will be taken , which will be used to create your earmould for your hearing aid . You will return several weeks later to get your aid fitted . At the initial appointment you will be asked a list of questions about your hearing to help determine how best to adjust your aid for different situations . Ask your audiologist to print out a copy for you so that you are able to monitor the situations where you have difficulty hearing . Keep a list of all the different situations you have difficulty hearing in and tell the audiologist at your fitting appointment . The more information you can give the audiologist about the different situations that you have difficulty hearing in , or hear well in , the better they will be able to adjust the hearing aid for your individual needs . Fitting Once your hearing aid is ready , you will return for a fitting appointment . Most people will receive one hearing aid , but in some cases the type of hearing loss ( bilateral ) makes it more beneficial for the patient to receive two aids . However , resource limitations mean that not everyone who would benefit from two hearing aids will get them . Your aid will be chosen to suit the degree and type of hearing loss you have . You will be shown how to put in the earmould . You will also be shown how to operate the controls and how to change the batteries . Your audiologist will help you to manage your hearing loss , improve your communication skills and enable you to participate fully in daily activities . Follow up care You will have a follow-up appointment around 6 to 12 weeks after your fitting appointment . Here you can discuss any problems you may be experiencing and any necessary adjustments will be made to the earmould and / or the programming of the hearing aid . For example , you may still have trouble hearing individual voices in noisy situations , or the aid may be amplifying sound too much in some situations . At this appointment , you may also get further information about getting used to , and looking after , the hearing aid . After your follow-up appointment you will not normally be sent another audiological appointment unless you request one . However , some audiology departments conduct a routine follow up after a period of one or two years . If you are not happy with the sounds the hearing aid produces and this is stopping you using it in all the situations you want to , you should request another appointment to make further adjustments to your hearing aid . Ongoing support You do n't usually need an appointment to get new hearing aid batteries . Check with your local department when facilities are available as opening times can vary . These are supplied free of charge from your local audiology department and may be available from local GP surgeries and health centres . If you have ongoing problems adjusting to your hearing aid , check if there is a hearing therapist in your area . They can offer ongoing support in helping you to manage your hearing loss , improve your communication skills and enable you to participate fully in daily activities . You can be referred by your family doctor or check with your local audiology department . If your hearing aid or earmould needs repairing you may or may not need an appointment , depending on local policy .	Instruction
1265	In addition to the internet connection , you should also try to have at least 100 MB of free space available on your drive when you install Titan Poker . For the best performance , having 500 MB or even 1 GB of hard disk space free would be a good idea . This does not mean that Titan Poker will take up all of that space , but rather it just means that installations tend to go faster if you have met those particular requirements .	Instruction
1055	1 . I warrant that the information lodged by me on this site is true and accurate as at the date specified and is not calculated to be misleading in any way . 2 . For the purposes of the Data Protection Act 1998 and any associated legislation regulations or codes I consent to and authorise the posting of the information I have lodged on the website where it may be accessed by other persons whether lawfully under the express or implied authorisation of HFMA or otherwise . 3 . I acknowledge and accept entire responsibility for setting out information in the way that I have stated it and in so doing waive any right of confidentiality that might otherwise be applicable thereto . 4 . I acknowledge that HFMA is not to be held responsible for the accuracy of the information posted on it and does not routinely monitor the information lodged . I nevertheless accept and agree to provide private and confidential verification of any particulars posted upon request by an authorised officer of HFMA at any time ( should he or she elect to do so ) and acknowledge that any particulars may be removed from the website at any time by HFMA pending compliance with any such request . 5 . I agree and acknowledge that I shall not use the site to make any inappropriate comments or to post information otherwise than limited strictly to the stated purpose of the site : and in the event of any breach of the terms and conditions set out above and in consideration of my being allowed to use the site I hereby agree to indemnify HFMA in respect of any claim demand loss or expense incurred by it arising from any breach on my part of those terms and conditions . 6 . I acknowledge the right of HFMA at any time to remove or edit any information posted on the site from time to time in the absolute discretion of an authorised officer of the HFMA in so doing .	Legal
1572	"The emblem of McDonald's is symbol of harmony , friendship , funny , the uncle who dresses in the traditional circus clothing , yellow , red and white , the shirt and socks , big red shoes , yellow gloves , red-haired . in theUnited Stateschildren of aged 4-9 , only is the second most familiar characters , he will always be a symbol of everyone's friend . Golden arches : McDonald's emblem is curved "" M "" letter , dominated yellow color , dark red for the secondary color , yellow recalls the cheap price , but no matter what kind of weather , yellow vision is strong . "" M "" letter of the arc is very soft , the image of the door will associate with store , you have strong desire to enter the store . McDonald's becomes the most successful fast food chain in the world , it is a set of unique business ideas and her philosophy , the McDonald must have brilliant future . In short , the philosophy can be used to describe four letters , namely : Q , S , C , V. Specifically , Q : for Quality ( quality ) , S : for service ( service ) , C : for cleanliness ( cleanliness ) , V : for value ( value ) . The philosophy is builded up by the founder of McDonald's Ray Kroc in the beginning . For decades , it has committed to implement this idea to convince consumers to enjoy his food . Q ( quality ) : ensure the unique flavor and freshness of food , McDonald's adopts series of critical ways . All materials must be checked before enter into the store , including pie of beef and so on , the index is near 40 , the temperature can not exceed 4 ° C in the warehouse . S ( service ) : McDonald's promote the fast , friendly and attentive service . The restaurant waiters are courteous , the equipment is advanced and convenient , the customer waiting time is very short , takeaway food is also available in various types of sterile packaging . C ( cleanliness ) : when you enter the McDonald's restaurant , you will feel fresh and elegant environment , clean and tidy . It has strict health standards , such as employees must use special liquid germicidal to scrub the hand for 20 seconds , then drying . V ( value ) : the so-called value , is the reasonable price , value for production . McDonald's emphasizes on taste of food , color , nutrition to provide customers with pleasant environment to enjoy the spirit of culture , which is the intangible value ."	Information/Explanation
1365	"Motorcycling Australia Rescind Decision BR2403 In essence this allowed riders to circumnavigate the traditional club model of membership when seeking a competition license . As a result a groundswell of concerned motorcycling stakeholders generated a petition against the introduction of decision BR2403 – receiving solid support . SM Magazine reported on the stakeholders reaction , and among a range of key issues , also raised a number of concerns . Especially the long term impact this ruling might have in eroding the club models membership and volunteer numbers , impacting on a clubs ability to maintain equality in its power base when lobbying government agencies on issues relevent to the general motorcycling community . In an open letter from President of MA , Stephen Foody , addressed to motorcycle clubs , he has rescinded the change that was scheduled to come into effect 1 January 2014 ( full letter here Club_Memberships ) . "" Motorcycling Australia ( MA ) wishes to advise that the MA Board will consider deferring the decision on removal of the compulsory club membership requirement for a period of 12 months while further consultation takes place . "" It 's a credit to MA in taking this action . A deeper and broader consultation phase and a higher level of collaboration with all stakeholders effected by these decisions will produce a better decision . After all , both motorcycle clubs and MA share similar agendas : that is to provide safe riding conditions , a unique and healthy lifestyle option , equality for motorcyclists , fair legislation and help build a productive and relevant motorcycling industry . We will keep you informed ."	News
1043	All entries to arrive by 5pm on Friday , May 19 , 2006 at Eastern Daily Press , Norwich office . The shortlist will be announced in the EDP . 2 All entries must be submitted with an official entry form , either from the newspaper or online . Once received no entries will be returned unless specifically requested by the applicant . 3 The organiser can not accept any responsibility whatsoever for the protection of rights to their product / service . Entrants should ensure they have any necessary protection of their interests prior to submitting their entries . 4 The organisers will not be responsible for entries which may be damaged , lost or mislaid in the post or otherwise . 5 The decision of the judges is final in terms of any ward made . The organisers will not be obliged to justify their decisions or enter into any correspondence . 6 Any entrants for the awards must be prepared to receive media coverage and this should be accepted as a condition of entry . 7 Finalists in all categories are expected to attend the awards ceremony at the Norwich City Airport Holiday Inn on Friday , October 6 , as guests of the organisers . 8 Shortlisted applicants for the final may be requested to supply additional material in support of their application and to receive a visit from the judging panel if necessary . 9 The organisers reserve the right not to make awards in any category if the standard of entry does not warrant it . 10 All information submitted will be treated as confidential if so requested and will not , subject to 6 above , be disclosed without the permission of the applicant . 11 The awards scheme is not open to companies in the Archant group nor to sponsoring companies .	Legal
1283	Children used to play at cops and robbers or cowboys and Indians . Now , in 2011 , they can play at being the Little Prince . After the figurines based on the Planet of Time , here is a new range of toys and articles based on the Little Prince series . The fox is the Little Prince's constant companion , and a symbol in his own right : a symbol of friendship . Our little princes and princesses can now carry their own cuddly toy fox with them on their adventures . Thanks to the series , the Little Prince has become the hero of new adventures . Now children can actually dress up as the Little Prince and brandish the famous sword he uses to bring wonderful characters to life . And once the adventures are over for the day , they can put away their toys in a superb toy-chest in their hero's colours and sit comfortably in the magnificent Little Prince wooden armchair as they read Antoine de Saint-Exupéry's book .	Promotion
282	A true picture of how busy we are IT IS a common and justifiable complaint by police forces across the country - they only get the credit for half the work they do . Scores of incidents each day , many of them reports of anti-social behaviour , go unaccounted for because they are not classed as crime . The result is a false picture of just how busy the police service is . Now , thanks to Cambridgeshire and 10 other forces , all that could be about to change . From the start of next month ( April ) , the 11 will take part in a pilot scheme aimed ultimately at the introduction of a National Standard for Incident Recording ( NSIR ) . NSIR is widely seen as a natural progression from the controversial National Crime Recording Standard , enabling performance management to also focus on the non-crime work which occupies so much of police time . The pilot scheme , and a second pilot which is intended to include all forces from October this year , is aimed at the national adoption of NSIR in April next year . That will give the first comprehensive and accurate picture of police work at local and national levels , catering for all performance information needs . Cambridgeshire and the 11 other chosen forces' role in the first pilot scheme will be to test and challenge the design of NSIR to assess its value , including its ability to provide a customer - focused approach . The Home Office , which is driving NSIR , has identified 57 incidents to target during the pilot . These are split into four categories - road related , anti-social behaviour , public safety and crime related . It is demanding compliance with a minimum data standard which ' does create a major impact on our current recording systems , ' says the force's NSIR Pilot Support Officer , Sgt Gordon Lilley . His objectives include identifying all sources of information ; analysing the procedure for information capture and reviewing them for compliance with NSIR - and identifying information that is not yet captured . ' NSIR must not be viewed as yet another layer of bureaucracy , ' says Gordon . ' Our job as a force involved in the pilot scheme is to truly and thoroughly test it to ensure that it works properly and performs two vital functions - to give us the information we need to resource tasks and to demonstrate just how busy we are . ' For the first time , once NSIR is properly up and running , everyone will have a complete picture of the many and various demands on the police service . ' Just another day ... SO JUST how busy is the force ? Our CC3 system records more than 250,000 incidents every year . Under NSIR , many of those incidents will meet the criteria for recording as anti-social behaviour - one of the main target areas identified by the Government for action . A snapshot survey in England and Wales on September 10 last year recorded 66,107 such incidents in 24 hours . In Cambridgeshire , the tally for the day was 203 , and included reports ranging from drug dealing to rubbish dumping . Top of the league in the county that day were reports of intimidation or harassment . There were 35 .	News
1391	"Real Estate Information Archive Blog Question : Allison , I heard that Congress recently changed some of the capital gains laws . What have you heard ? Answer : Hardly anybody noticed it , but Congress tucked away a valuable bit of holiday cheer for real estate when it passed its final tax bill of the year . It was the first substantive change in years to the generous capital gains rules governing sales of principal homes . According to Kenneth Harney , most homeowners and real estate professionals can recite these rules in their sleep : Married , joint-filing sellers of houses can exclude up to $ 500 , 000 of gain , and single-filing sellers can take up to $ 250 , 000 ... provided they 've used the property as a principal residence for a cumulative two of the previous five years . But what happens when a married home owner dies ? Does the surviving spouse still qualify for the full $ 500 , 000 -- or does she or he only get to exclude $ 250 , 000 ? The answer from the IRS has been this : you only get the full $ 500 , 000 if you sell during the tax year in which you were married and filing a joint return . Otherwise , the tax code sees you as single , and then you 're limited to $ 250 , 000 . In other words , if your wife or husband died in June of 2007 , you can only claim the full $ 500 , 000 benefit if you sell before December 31 , 2007 . After that , as long as you remain unmarried , you 're capped at the $ 250 , 000 limit for single taxpayers . As a practical matter , most surviving spouses inherit their husband's or wife's share of the property at what 's known as a "" stepped up "" tax basis , with no capital gains tax liability at the current market value . Well , now they 've got it . Legislation signed into law before the holiday recess gives surviving spouses two full years to qualify for the $ 500 , 000 exclusion -- even though technically they 're single . And who says Congress does n't have a heart ? Since your tax professional may not be familiar with this yet , here 's the official citation : The bill is H.R. 3648 . The capital gains change is in Section 7 . Question : Our goal for this next year is to buy a home in Summit County . We want to get some information on financing and are considering using an Internet lender . What would be the benefits of working with someone locally versus working with an Internet lender ? Answer : There are numerous advantages when using a local mortgage lender as compared to a mortgage lender obtained over the Internet . Customer service is the number one advantage . A local mortgage lender is familiar with the properties in their area , whereas an Internet lender may have limited knowledge of the requirements associated with a resort area . With a local lender the borrowers will have an individual who is personally working on their loan application , as every borrower's needs and financial situations are unique . The borrower also has a contact person to check the status of their application and to answer any questions they may have . Plus they will be able to speak directly with a local lender without having to play phone tag or leaving messages in voice mail that can be associated with the larger mortgage corporations . This can be frustrating to the borrowers . The lender is responsible for ordering the appraisal on the property , which should be from a local appraiser . This is very important . A local appraiser is familiar with the area and the values of the properties and any changes in the area that can affect those values . When purchasing a condominium unit , local lenders will be familiar with the condominium projects in the area and will know if the project meets the lender's requirements . There is also the working relationship with the local title companies , surveyors and insurance companies to meet the state's requirements to provide each borrower with clear title to the property . There are several steps that must be completed to take a borrower from application to approval to the closing date . Working with the local mortgage lenders , title companies , appraisers and surveyors makes all these steps come together . You have the advantage of the individuals familiar not only with the area but also the requirements of each purchase contract . Purchasing a home whether it 's your first home , vacation home or a rental property can be stressful , working with your local professionals can make this process a lot easier . Question : Our Realtor has suggested that we hire an interior decorator to "" stage "" our home . Is there any benefit in this ? Answer : Originally popularized in California , staging helps homes sell quickly and for more money . Staging concentrates not on changing the interior in terms of painting or adding carpeting , says Carole Talbott of home decorating company Visual Coordinations . These are things the buyers would most likely prefer to choose themselves . Rather staging depends on "" selling the space . "" When a home is staged , it 's reorganized--first with the furniture , then artwork , and finally by accessories . The furnishings remain the same , except for well-worn pieces or those that break up the design . Many times accessories are used to add color to a room . Stagers charge approximately $ 500 to $ 750 for a three-bedroom , two-bath home ; Talbott advises owners to stage only the main living areas to avoid high costs . Some staging advice for homeowners who want to go it alone : furniture should be kept away from walls by grouping at angles in the middle of the room ; colors should be chosen from artwork and fabrics , and accessories should be chosen to accentuate them ; collections should be kept together ; and mirrors should be placed in locations where favorable scenery will reflect . To attract attention to the exterior , the front door should be the first thing painted or decorated . Question : I am thinking of buying a condominium in Summit County and want to find a property with low homeowner's association dues . How important is it for the association to have a capital reserve fund ? Answer : Condominium buyers should be wary of associations that lack adequate reserves--money set aside to pay for emergency or major repairs--because they could be forced to pay special assessments to cover costs when the association can not . Additionally , a future sale or refinancing could be denied based on the association's reserves ; and it is difficult to find a buyer under such conditions . Insufficient reserve funds can lead to declining property values , as educated buyers refrain from purchasing condos in the community , according to the Community Associations Institute , a national nonprofit organization that educates and provides resources to homeowner groups . Annually , an association's board of directors is required to predict the next year's income and expenses--usually through a reserve analysis study . This report consists of a property evaluation--architectural and engineering--by qualified engineers . The engineers determine the useful life and repair costs of things like boilers , elevators , and roofs to determine how much money should be set aside each year to plan for future replacement . The reserve funds are generally collected from the condo owners on a monthly or quarterly basis and deposited into Treasury bills or other secure government-insured funds . If a repair is necessary and the association needs to raise the money immediately , there are three steps it can take : increase the monthly assessment amount ; impose special assessments , in which the owner immediately pays a fee based on the percentage interest he / she has in the association ( sometimes amounting to hundreds of dollars ) ; or get a loan . Answer : Although reverse mortgages are an ideal fit for many senior homeowners , they are not the best option for all of them . A reverse mortgage would not be in the best interest of someone who intends to make a move in the foreseeable future , the AARP and other sources note . Reverse loans usually come with stiff upfront fees and closing costs of up to 10 percent of the loan amount , which are distributed over the life of the loan . Owners who sell their homes quickly will also lose their equity quickly . Reverse mortgages may not be suitable for seniors who want to leave a free-and-clear property behind as a legacy to their heirs . At the same time , some experts say elderly homeowners should consider a reverse loan as a way to meet living expenses or settle medical bills while they are alive , without worrying about what will happen when they die . Their offspring still can keep the property by paying off the reverse mortgage with funds from the estate or with their own money , or by taking out a new mortgage . Experts warn that reverse loans may not be the solution for the youngest seniors , because longer life expectancy qualifies borrowers for less money , or for those in the midst of a temporary financial emergency , who might be better off taking out a home equity line instead . Finally , another alternative , such as selling the property and using the proceeds to downsize into a smaller house or to rent , might make sense for some seniors . Question : Allison , we 've heard a lot about 1031 tax-deferred exchanges and would like to know if our second home would qualify for a like-kind exchange with another piece of property that is closer to our home . We have never rented our current property , but consider it an investment due to it 's appreciation the past few years . Answer : Your question is a good one – and one that has been in the media and in the courts quite a bit in the past few months . To get an accurate assessment of your particular situation , I recommend you speak with a company that specializes in 1031 tax-deferred exchanges . According to Inman News , a similar case to yours was tried in court . Here are the details . In 1988 Barry and Deborah Moore purchased a second home on Clark Hill Lake . It included a home to which the Moores added a deck and other improvements . The property was a three-hour drive from their principal residence . The Moores and their children visited the property two weekends each month between April and September each year . But in 1995 the Moores changed their primary-residence location , making the drive to the Clark Hill Lake property a five - to six-hour trip . As a result , they used the property only a few times each summer . The Clark Hill Lake property was never offered for rent to short - or long-term tenants . On their income-tax returns , the Moores deducted their mortgage interest and property tax payments as personal itemized deductions . In 2000 , the Moores found a five-bedroom , four-bathroom house on 1.2 acres of land adjoining Lake Lanier , just a few hours from their home . It has five screened-in porches , a party deck and veranda . They decided to make an Internal Revenue Code 1031 tax-deferred trade of the Clark Hill Lake property for the larger and closer Lake Lanier property . They justified the exchange by stating both properties were held for "" investment "" rather than for personal use . Upon audit , the IRS denied the IRC 1031 tax-deferral on the sale of the Clark Hill Lake property . The IRS auditor noted the property had never been rented and was used only by the Moore family on weekends . But the Moores argued they held the property as an investment for future appreciation in market value . They took their dispute to the U.S. Tax Court . If you were the judge would you allow the Moores to defer the capital gains tax on the trade of the Clark Hill Lake property as an investment ? The judge said no ! To qualify for an IRC 1031 tax-deferred exchange , the judge began , both properties involved in the trade must be held for investment or for use in a trade or business . Although the Moores pointed to the appreciation potential of the Clark Hill Lake property , he continued , "" It is a taxpayer's primary purpose in holding the properties that counts . "" "" Property held for investment is property held for the production of income , "" the judge explained . "" We accept as fact the Moores hoped that both the Clark Hill and Lake Lanier properties would appreciate , "" he noted . "" Mere hope or expectation that property may be sold at a gain can not establish an investment intent if the taxpayer uses the property as a residence , "" the judge emphasized . There was no convincing proof either property was held for the production of income as a rental since the family used both properties primarily as vacation retreats , he added . Because the evidence strongly showed both vacation homes were held for personal use , rather than for production of income , neither property qualifies for an IRC 1031 tax-deferred exchange , and the Clark Hill Lake property sale is taxable , the judge ruled ."	Instruction
1352	Best mattress reviews Pillow top mattress reviews A pillow top mattress is a mattress not less than five inch layer of either latex , memory form , polifiber , wool or even water made to give comfort . They either have a Euro top or a pillow top which gives them their name , Pillow top mattress . Best pillow top mattress : consumer satisfaction Basically , according to pillow top mattress reviews , memory form gives the highest consumer satisfaction of 81 % followed by latex giving a consumer satisfaction of 80 % then water with 79 % and lastly air with 78 % consumer satisfaction Different kinds of these mattresses come in different sizes , prices ranging from 200.00 dollars to 3000.00 dollars or more depending on the sizes , materials and thickness of the pillow top mattresses : queen size ; king size ; double . Lifespan reviews The lifespan of pillow top mattresses is basically three to fifteen years with the biggest percentage having a lifespan of three to five years with a very small percentage giving a lifespan of more than ten years . The initial comfort provided by the mattresses is excellent in the first few years of service ranging from three to ten years depending on the nature of the material used . This happens due to the sagging effect of the materials in the mattresses . Due to the compression from the forces exerted on the mattresses the materials tend to compress and therefore the pain relieving effect on the pillow top , the comfort effect and the deep sleep reduces with continuous usage of the pillow top mattresses . This is more observable in the air or inner spring mattresses . However , weight of a person is not a factor of their sagging effect , but the materials used with the ones made from memory form giving highest percentage of sagging after the first few year of usage ranging from three to five years . Warming and odour effect Pillow top mattresses have a lot of reviews about it 's warming effect to the consumers . This is because they trap air in them which warms up itself and therefore give out relative warmth when it is cold . Mattresses especially with memory form are known to give out more warmth than the other materials , this is because memory form has spaces in it which trap air in them which later warms up therefore giving more heat than the other materials . This results to an uncomfortable sleeping surface due to the warmth . Compared to non pillow mattresses , pillow mattresses give more heat and twice as likely to produce odours as non pillow mattresses . The awful odors produced can last from a few hours to some weeks especially with memory form mattresses . Pillow top mattress relieving effect review Pain relieving function of the pillow top mattresses is excellent on in the first years of usage , they relieve pain on hip , back and shoulder , however , this reduces as the mattress is continuously used , after sagging , do n't expect much relieve of your pains from the mattresses . Pillow top mattresses with memory form relieve pain faster than pillow top mattresses without memory form . Storage	Promotion
1390	Feeds Minutes from Mar 2007 Exec Minutes - Planning Meeting 14th March 2007 Present All except Bruce who is in London , Candle who had no apologies and Morlark who 's location is unknown . Agenda Previous Minutes Commercial Websites on Tov Exec / TechTeam Policy Guidelines Planning Meeting Previous Minutes All accept previous minutes without problem . General agreement that minutes will be accepted unless anyone objects before hand . Commercial Websites on Tov Tim told the exec that there was one commercial website being hosted out of Tov that he knew about . He asked whether this was firstly sensible and secondly whether this broke any terms of service either we or the user had to agree to . General exec opinion was that this was a difficult topic , potential problems included legal action for downtime which could be a large amount if there was a significant problem . This was even a problem despite terms of service not guaranteeing any service level . Action Si is to email Union with regards this issue and obtain a legal clarification Exec / TechTeam Policy Guidelines Si presented this point stating that under Equal Ops and he felt obligations to members , there were certain areas which the Exec needed to produce a guidelines or ' policy ' for the TechTeam to ensure that problems were minimised . Several issues were given for instance the recent tech team decision on hardware needed to go through the Exec since it was a finance decision and not an entirely Tech Team area , secondly the potential for Equal Ops problems with regards IRC administration needed to be clarified and finally , as part of membership drive we present the services we offer as a reason to join , therefore there needed to be some cohesion to how we provide those and how we communicate to members if they are not going to be available . For instance , a warning on IRC 5 minutes before is not enough if this can be helped in some way . There seemed to much unease about this particularly from Exec members who were also on the Tech Team . Dan , Polar Bucko both stated that Si was trying to remove the fun from the Tech Team's role and effectively move into a situation where TechTeam was a boring entity . Si and Mullet both stated that they did n't want this to be the outcome , Si explicitly stating he did n't really care precisely about how tech problems were sorted but that there was no ramifications of unelected tech team members making a decision which affects membership or Union rules . The central problem is that unelected members are interpreting situations and making policy how they see fit rather than enforcing an enacting an agreed set of rules . Bucko suggested that we develop an ad-hoc arrangement to policy making whereby we react to a problem rather than attempt to develop policy for it beforehand . Most members felt this was sensible . More conversation followed . Following more heated discussion , Bucko took the constructive step of leaving to read Sanctuary in his paper . The end result is ultimately that the status quo will continue without any change since all Tech Team members on the Exec seemed to state that they felt there was no need for any development of policy . Planning Meeting This went on for a number of hours and raised various issues / plans the Exec want to look into . These are currently being actioned and where necessary will be discussed at future meetings or through email conversations with members . A.O.B. Exec Minutes - 9th March 2007 Present All , Candle and Bucko slightly late but participate in all discussions Agenda Previous Minutes Future Newsletters Week 10 Socials Sponsorship Gaming A.O.B Previous Minutes Generally previous minutes had been somewhat of a disaster due to use of PDF and unavailability due to a bad URL . Simon said he would try to sort this out and use Textile but generally would be helpful if people could pass on information before it became a problem with general membership . This will be improved in future . Action : All to read minutes with next 2 days ( via PDF ) and email exec with any problems . Future Newsletters Had also been a considerable problem due to formatting and missing information . Si also promised to try to improve these in future , if only to remove all the complains emails in his inbox . Action : Network Cable information to be included in future emails Action : Tech Team to provide script for news letters Action : Disk quota to be included in future newsletters Action : Newsletters to be sent to exec before being sent out Exec Minutes - 2nd March 2007 Exec List – Public or Private The group discussed various aspects of the issue which had been raised via email conversations over the week . Richard proposed we could adopt one of two existing styles – the WUGLUG discussion list style or alternatively a public read system . Fred stated that he preferred to have a public and private system – there could be a private list for closed communication , a public list for everything else . Dan stated that he would prefer a WUGLUG style system to be used in addition to the existing system . Bucko suggested that the exec list email goes private and external email goes public – with the intention of improving transparency . Richard proposed to have a public list and a private for closed businesses such as society communications and funding arrangements . Tim stated that he believed there was a perceived problem that the exec did not communicate to members well . Richard stated that it was every Exec members responsibility to try to communicate with the membership and answer their queries as much as possible . In particular , if perception was an issue then we needed to confront it head on . It was concluded to leave the exec list as is . Social with VGDSoc Richard said that conversations with VGDSoc had led to Tuesday Week 10 being suggested for a social . Action : Bucko to book rooms for Social Richard discussed a Laptop LAN and a Console session . Action : TechTeam to be ready for a Laptop LAN Action : Bucko to book two adjacent B rooms if possible . Schedule for 2007-2008 Richard said that we need a meeting to plan for the 2007-2008 academic year . Candle said we should do this at an exec meeting . Action : Next week's exec meeting to discuss 2007-2008 . Report on term 3 socials Bucko said he had completed the form for the term 3 BBQ but had not picked up the form yet . We would need to find a fire extinguisher . He had also agreed the Paintball Social times with Paintball soc . Bots of IRC Discussion centred around a private incident that had occurred on IRC recently . Details are not included in the minutes for privacy . T-shirts for Programming Competition Entrants Andrew said that he had not yet done anything with regards t-shirts . Their location was currently unknown . Action : Andrew to find t-shirts and to put them in the CompSoc cupboard . Email exec when this has been done . Prizes for Programming Competition Entrants Arun stated that we had promised exciting prizes but this was difficult to justify given the number of entrants . Nursery Project Richard explained that the nursery project had made some progress . In particular a number of developers had met the customer and she seemed happy with the product so far . It was also concluded that we should only accept a contract to maintain the product if sufficient financial incentive was available for the society , and also only for a period of one year , however the o ? cer seemed unlikely since ITS seemed likely to takeover maintenance of the product . Action : Andrew and Richard : to work on database over weekend . CompSoc Library Dan explained that OâReily were offering free evaluation copies and a 35 % discount to CompSoc members provided we wrote small reviews on the book . We are also obliged to place a banner on the CompSoc website . Action : Tech Team to inform Dan of what books are needed for upgrades . Action : Tech Team to place referral link on website . Action : Dan to investigate if we can donate books to library after review . Introduction to CompSoc PDF Arun introduced the topic ( which had also been discussed with the Tech Team . The idea is how to obtain services from CompSoc for new members . Agenda : Material for CompSoc PDF 07 Action : Arun in charge of PDF and Wiki Action : Arun to complete list of what the PDF will contain . Action : Every team to produce 2 A5 sides of material covering the basics of what people need to do for their area .	News
806	5 . In the production of electricity by burning diesel , what is the correct sequence of processes ? A. turning turbine , production of steam , generation of electricity , B. turning turbine , generation of electricity , production of steam , C. production of steam , turning turbine , generation of electricity , D. production of steam , generation of electricity , turning turbine . 6 . In the different methods of production of electricity ( HEP , thermal , pedalling ) which of the following processes is found in all types of electricity production ? A. production of steam , B. turning turbine , C. utilization of a flow of water , D. turning a generator . 7 . In the following event-line for the production of electricity indicate by clicking the radio button which energy source is placed there . Use these for A , B , C and D : A : Nuclear power B : HEP C : Coal D : Animal power A B C D A B C D A B C D | | | heat ----------------------- > steam --------------------- > turbine ---------------------- > generator	Information/Explanation
209	"First session New York , 8-19 April 2002 Implementation of article VI and paragraph 4 ( c ) of the 1995 Decision on "" Principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament "" Report submitted by Sweden As stated in the Final Document of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons , in the section entitled "" Article VI and eighth to twelfth preambular paragraphs "" , in paragraph 15 , subparagraph 12 , the Conference agreed on : "" Regular reports , within the framework of the strengthened review process for the Non-Proliferation Treaty , by all States parties on the implementation of article VI and paragraph 4 ( c ) of the 1995 Decision on ' Principles and Objectives for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament ' "" . Sweden would hereby like to submit its report to the first session of the Preparatory Committee for the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons . Nuclear disarmament The 2000 NPT Review Conference During the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons , Sweden participated in the New Agenda Coalition , which played a role in the final negotiations with the nuclear-weapon States to secure a successful outcome of the Conference . The group had prepared extensively for the Review Conference and had a common position as basis for negotiations . Sweden , as a member of the European Union ( EU ) , also participated in developing a common EU position for the Review Conference . The Union delivered a statement on the basis of the joint position at the Conference . Since the 2000 Review Conference , the New Agenda Coalition has engaged in a constructive dialogue with the nuclear-weapon States on their implementation of the 13 steps agreed to at the Conference on how to achieve nuclear disarmament . In November 2000 , the work of the 2000 Review Conference was followed up at the fifty-fifth session of the United Nations General Assembly . The New Agenda , coordinated by Sweden , presented a draft resolution ( A / C. 1 / 55 / L. 4 and Rev. 1 , subsequently adopted as resolution 55 / 33C ) , which reaffirmed the results of the Conference . It received very strong support by Member States and was adopted on 20 November 2000 with only three countries voting against ( India , Pakistan and Israel ) and eight countries abstaining . During the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly , Sweden voted in favour of resolution 55 / 41 , entitled "" Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty "" , which called for necessary measures to enable the Treaty to enter into force . During spring 2001 , Sweden held the Presidency of the European Union and delivered a statement on behalf of the Union in the Conference on Disarmament calling , inter alia , for the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the commencement of work in the Conference on Disarmament . Sweden strived to advance the European Union work in the spring session of the United Nations Disarmament Commission on the nuclear topic "" Ways and means to achieve nuclear disarmament "" . In October 2001 , the New Agenda decided not to present a resolution in the First Committee of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly . The New Agenda Ministers for Foreign Affairs expressed their views in a Ministerial Communiqué presented on 8 October 2001 in the Committee by the coordinator of the Group , South Africa . 1 The Ministers agreed that the priority would be to pursue their initiative in the context of the forthcoming Non-Proliferation Treaty review process beginning in 2002 . "" The 2000 NPT undertakings on nuclear disarmament had been given . Implementation of them was now the imperative . "" In November 2001 , the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs , Ms. Anna Lindh , participated in the Conference on Facilitating the Entry into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty . Ms. Lindh held a national statement in the plenary , which dealt with nuclear disarmament in general and with the Treaty in particular . In the margins of the conference , Sweden , together with Canada and Australia , financed a seminar , organized by the United Kingdom-based NGO VERTIC , to promote the verification system of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty , the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization ( CTBTO ) in Vienna . Foreign Minister Lindh made an introductory statement , expressing strong support for CTBTO and its capacity to verify the Treaty . Furthermore , Ms. Lindh also gave a speech in the General Assembly in November 2001.2 A significant section of the Swedish speech was devoted to nuclear disarmament . In November 2001 , the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs , in a press statement , welcomed the announcements by the United States of America and the Russian Federation concerning planned reductions in their strategic nuclear weapons arsenals . She also expressed hope that the reductions would be irreversible , transparent and verifiable . In December 2001 , Foreign Minister Anna Lindh issued a press statement expressing concern about the potential negative consequences the unilateral withdrawal by the United States from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty could have on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation and urging the United States to continue its consultations , in particular with the Russian Federation and China respectively . Preparations for the session of the Preparatory Committee in 2002 In autumn 2001 , Sweden , through Ambassador Henrik Salander , Permanent Representative of Sweden to the Conference on Disarmament , was appointed Chair of the first session of the Preparatory Committee for the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons , to be held in New York in April 2002 . During winter and spring 2002 , Sweden , through Ambassador Salander , prepared for the first session of the Preparatory Committee by consulting with all States parties to the Treaty . Sweden also participated actively in the New Agenda's preparations for the Preparatory Committee session . A position paper was drafted stating fundamental principles of nuclear disarmament , taking stock of the developments since the 2000 Review Conference and making short-term and long-term suggestions for the way ahead . The New Agenda also prepared statements to be held in the general debate and in the cluster debate about nuclear disarmament and released a press statement preceding the opening of the Preparatory Committee session . The New Agenda will continue to be active in the period leading up to the opening meeting of the First Committee of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session . In spring 2002 , the European Union prepared a Statement to be delivered on behalf of the Union at the first session of the Preparatory Committee , during the general debate . Conference on Disarmament The Conference on Disarmament has not been able to agree on a programme of work and has thus remained idle in the period following the 2000 Review Conference . Several decisions of the Conference included in the 13-step action plan have therefore not yet materialized : the commencement of negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty and consideration of the questions of nuclear disarmament in subsidiary bodies of the Conference on Disarmament . In February 2002 , the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs , Ms. Anna Lindh , spoke in the Conference on Disarmament . The speech covered the whole disarmament agenda : weapons of mass destruction as well as conventional weapons . A significant part of the speech was devoted to nuclear disarmament , emphasizing issues such as an early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty , universality of and compliance with the Non-Proliferation Treaty , the principle of irreversibility in nuclear reductions , etc. Ms. Lindh also called upon the Conference on Disarmament to agree on a programme of work and expressed Sweden's readiness to accept the Amorim proposal in order to start negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty as well as to start dealing with nuclear disarmament and the prevention of an arms race in outer space . In February 2002 , the European Union , under the Presidency of Spain , delivered a statement in the Conference on Disarmament calling for the commencement of work in the Conference . Destruction of nuclear weapons The primary responsibility for the destruction of nuclear weapons rests with the countries concerned , i . e . the nuclear-weapon States . Sweden believes , however , that international cooperation is essential . Thus Sweden has agreed , on invitation , to participate as an observer in the successor group to the G8 Plutonium Disposition Planning Group . The new group will be launched in the near future . Sweden agrees with the G8 Group that it is critical to ensure that excess weapons-grade plutonium resulting from arms reduction is managed and disposed of in such a way that it can no longer be available for future use or diversion for nuclear weapons . Sweden has a great deal of expertise available in the fields of nuclear safety , safeguards and nuclear fuel and waste management . Thus Sweden has been able to provide cooperation and assistance to Russia and other countries members of the Commonwealth of Independent States in the field of nuclear non-proliferation , including : regulatory frameworks , material accounting and protection , export / import controls and management of spent nuclear fuel ( e . g . from Russian submarines and ice-breakers ) . Most of this takes place in cooperation with other countries , the European Union and the International Atomic Energy Agency . Sweden also has taken an active part in conferences organized under the Non-Proliferation and Disarmament Cooperation Initiative and its predecessor the Expanded Threat Reduction Initiative . Sweden has been contributing from the outset to the International Science and Technology Centre in Moscow and was one of the funding parties of the Science and Technology Centre in Ukraine . These two centres were set up to provide former Soviet weapon scientists with employment opportunities in the civilian sector . Safeguards Agreement Before Sweden became a member of the European Union in 1995 , the safeguards agreement requirement by article III of the NPT was satisfied by the Safeguards Agreement between the International Atomic Energy Agency and Sweden . 3 In the context of Sweden's accession to the European Union , notifications to the Agency by Sweden and by the European Atomic Energy Community , as required by the Safeguards Agreement between non-nuclear-weapon States of the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community , and the Agency , 4 were received by the IAEA on 24 May 1995 . For practical accounting purposes , as proposed in the notifications , the Agreement came into force with regard to Sweden on 1 June 1995.5 On the same date , the previous Swedish Safeguards Agreement with the Agency was suspended . 6 With regard to the Additional Protocol , Sweden , as a member of the European Union , has fulfilled its own requirements for entry into force . Additional Protocols for the EU member States will enter into force on the date when the Agency receives written notification from the EU States and Euratom that their respective requirements for entry into force have been met . Illicit trafficking In May 2001 , Sweden hosted an International Conference on illicit trafficking of fissile material and other radioactive sources and physical protection . The Conference , with participants from 70 countries , was organized by the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Swedish Nuclear Power Inspectorate . Export control As a supplier of nuclear commodities , Sweden participates in the Zangger Committee and the Nuclear Suppliers Group . The implementation of our obligation under article III , paragraph 2 , of the Non-Proliferation Treaty is ensured by means of controlling exports from Sweden in accordance with EU Council regulation ( EC ) 1334 / 2000 . In the view of Sweden , an effective domestic export control system also facilitates cooperation for peaceful purposes in the nuclear field . Nuclear energy for peaceful purposes Traditionally Sweden attaches great importance to the Agency's Technical Cooperation Programme . Over the years , Sweden has paid its full target share to the Technical Cooperation Fund , and Sweden also hosts a number of technical and scientific visits for students from developing countries . Regional treaties At the fifty-fifth and fifty-sixth sessions of the United Nations General Assembly , Sweden voted in favour of resolutions and decisions calling for regional nuclear-weapon-free zones . They are : • Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the Middle East – resolutions 55 / 30 and 56 / 21 ; • Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia – resolution 55 / 33 W and decision 56 / 412 ; • Nuclear-weapon-free southern hemisphere and adjacent areas – resolutions 55 / 33 I and 56 / 24 G ; • Consolidation of the regime established by the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean ( Treaty of Tlatelolco ) – resolutions 55 / 39 and 56 / 30 ; • African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty ( Treaty of Pelindaba ) – resolution 56 / 17 . Notes 1 A / C. 1 / 56 / 4 , annex . 3 Agreement of 14 April 1975 between the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards in Connection with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons ( INFCIRC / 234 ) . 4 Agreement between Belgium , Denmark , the Federal Republic of Germany , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , Portugal , the European Atomic Energy Community and the Agency in Connection with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons ( INFCIRC / 193 ) . 5 INFCIRC / 193 / Add . 5 . 6 INFCIRC / 234 / Mod . 1 ."	News
52	"Epilogue I Siberia . On the banks of a broad solitary river stands a town , one of the administrative centres of Russia ; in the town there is a fortress , in the fortress there is a prison . In the prison the second-class convict Rodion Raskolnikov has been confined for nine months . Almost a year and a half has passed since his crime . There had been little difficulty about his trial . The criminal adhered exactly , firmly , and clearly to his statement . He did not confuse nor misrepresent the facts , nor soften them in his own interest , nor omit the smallest detail . He explained every incident of the murder , the secret of the pledge ( the piece of wood with a strip of metal ) which was found in the murdered woman's hand . He described minutely how he had taken her keys , what they were like , as well as the chest and its contents ; he explained the mystery of Lizaveta's murder ; described how Koch and , after him , the student knocked , and repeated all they had said to one another ; how he afterwards had run downstairs and heard Nikolay and Dmitri shouting ; how he had hidden in the empty flat and afterwards gone home . He ended by indicating the stone in the yard off the Voznesensky Prospect under which the purse and the trinkets were found . The whole thing , in fact , was perfectly clear . The lawyers and the judges were very much struck , among other things , by the fact that he had hidden the trinkets and the purse under a stone , without making use of them , and that , what was more , he did not now remember what the trinkets were like , or even how many there were . The fact that he had never opened the purse and did not even know how much was in it seemed incredible . There turned out to be in the purse three hundred and seventeen roubles and sixty copecks . From being so long under the stone , some of the most valuable notes lying uppermost had suffered from the damp . They were a long while trying to discover why the accused man should tell a lie about this , when about everything else he had made a truthful and straightforward confession . Finally some of the lawyers more versed in psychology admitted that it was possible he had really not looked into the purse , and so did n't know what was in it when he hid it under the stone . But they immediately drew the deduction that the crime could only have been committed through temporary mental derangement , through homicidal mania , without object or the pursuit of gain . This fell in with the most recent fashionable theory of temporary insanity , so often applied in our days in criminal cases . Moreover Raskolnikov's hypochondriacal condition was proved by many witnesses , by Dr. Zossimov , his former fellow students , his landlady and her servant . All this pointed strongly to the conclusion that Raskolnikov was not quite like an ordinary murderer and robber , but that there was another element in the case . To the intense annoyance of those who maintained this opinion , the criminal scarcely attempted to defend himself . To the decisive question as to what motive impelled him to the murder and the robbery , he answered very clearly with the coarsest frankness that the cause was his miserable position , his poverty and helplessness , and his desire to provide for his first steps in life by the help of the three thousand roubles he had reckoned on finding . He had been led to the murder through his shallow and cowardly nature , exasperated moreover by privation and failure . To the question what led him to confess , he answered that it was his heartfelt repentance . All this was almost coarse .... The sentence however was more merciful than could have been expected , perhaps partly because the criminal had not tried to justify himself , but had rather shown a desire to exaggerate his guilt . All the strange and peculiar circumstances of the crime were taken into consideration . There could be no doubt of the abnormal and poverty-stricken condition of the criminal at the time . The fact that he had made no use of what he had stolen was put down partly to the effect of remorse , partly to his abnormal mental condition at the time of the crime . Incidentally the murder of Lizaveta served indeed to confirm the last hypothesis : a man commits two murders and forgets that the door is open ! Finally , the confession , at the very moment when the case was hopelessly muddled by the false evidence given by Nikolay through melancholy and fanaticism , and when , moreover , there were no proofs against the real criminal , no suspicions even ( Porfiry Petrovitch fully kept his word ) -- all this did much to soften the sentence . Other circumstances , too , in the prisoner's favour came out quite unexpectedly . Razumihin somehow discovered and proved that while Raskolnikov was at the university he had helped a poor consumptive fellow student and had spent his last penny on supporting him for six months , and when this student died , leaving a decrepit old father whom he had maintained almost from his thirteenth year , Raskolnikov had got the old man into a hospital and paid for his funeral when he died . Raskolnikov's landlady bore witness , too , that when they had lived in another house at Five Corners , Raskolnikov had rescued two little children from a house on fire and was burnt in doing so . This was investigated and fairly well confirmed by many witnesses . These facts made an impression in his favour . And in the end the criminal was , in consideration of extenuating circumstances , condemned to penal servitude in the second class for a term of eight years only . At the very beginning of the trial Raskolnikov's mother fell ill . Dounia and Razumihin found it possible to get her out of Petersburg during the trial . Razumihin chose a town on the railway not far from Petersburg , so as to be able to follow every step of the trial and at the same time to see Avdotya Romanovna as often as possible . Pulcheria Alexandrovna's illness was a strange nervous one and was accompanied by a partial derangement of her intellect . When Dounia returned from her last interview with her brother , she had found her mother already ill , in feverish delirium . That evening Razumihin and she agreed what answers they must make to her mother's questions about Raskolnikov and made up a complete story for her mother's benefit of his having to go away to a distant part of Russia on a business commission , which would bring him in the end money and reputation . But they were struck by the fact that Pulcheria Alexandrovna never asked them anything on the subject , neither then nor thereafter . On the contrary , she had her own version of her son's sudden departure ; she told them with tears how he had come to say good-bye to her , hinting that she alone knew many mysterious and important facts , and that Rodya had many very powerful enemies , so that it was necessary for him to be in hiding . As for his future career , she had no doubt that it would be brilliant when certain sinister influences could be removed . She assured Razumihin that her son would be one day a great statesman , that his article and brilliant literary talent proved it . This article she was continually reading , she even read it aloud , almost took it to bed with her , but scarcely asked where Rodya was , though the subject was obviously avoided by the others , which might have been enough to awaken her suspicions . They began to be frightened at last at Pulcheria Alexandrovna's strange silence on certain subjects . She did not , for instance , complain of getting no letters from him , though in previous years she had only lived on the hope of letters from her beloved Rodya . This was the cause of great uneasiness to Dounia ; the idea occurred to her that her mother suspected that there was something terrible in her son's fate and was afraid to ask , for fear of hearing something still more awful . In any case , Dounia saw clearly that her mother was not in full possession of her faculties . It happened once or twice , however , that Pulcheria Alexandrovna gave such a turn to the conversation that it was impossible to answer her without mentioning where Rodya was , and on receiving unsatisfactory and suspicious answers she became at once gloomy and silent , and this mood lasted for a long time . Dounia saw at last that it was hard to deceive her and came to the conclusion that it was better to be absolutely silent on certain points ; but it became more and more evident that the poor mother suspected something terrible . Dounia remembered her brother 's telling her that her mother had overheard her talking in her sleep on the night after her interview with Svidrigaïlov and before the fatal day of the confession : had not she made out something from that ? Sometimes days and even weeks of gloomy silence and tears would be succeeded by a period of hysterical animation , and the invalid would begin to talk almost incessantly of her son , of her hopes of his future .... Her fancies were sometimes very strange . They humoured her , pretended to agree with her ( she saw perhaps that they were pretending ) , but she still went on talking . Five months after Raskolnikov's confession , he was sentenced . Razumihin and Sonia saw him in prison as often as it was possible . At last the moment of separation came . Dounia swore to her brother that the separation should not be for ever , Razumihin did the same . Razumihin , in his youthful ardour , had firmly resolved to lay the foundations at least of a secure livelihood during the next three or four years , and saving up a certain sum , to emigrate to Siberia , a country rich in every natural resource and in need of workers , active men and capital . There they would settle in the town where Rodya was and all together would begin a new life . They all wept at parting . Raskolnikov had been very dreamy for a few days before . He asked a great deal about his mother and was constantly anxious about her . He worried so much about her that it alarmed Dounia . When he heard about his mother's illness he became very gloomy . With Sonia he was particularly reserved all the time . With the help of the money left to her by Svidrigaïlov , Sonia had long ago made her preparations to follow the party of convicts in which he was despatched to Siberia . Not a word passed between Raskolnikov and her on the subject , but both knew it would be so . At the final leave-taking he smiled strangely at his sister's and Razumihin's fervent anticipations of their happy future together when he should come out of prison . He predicted that their mother's illness would soon have a fatal ending . Sonia and he at last set off . Two months later Dounia was married to Razumihin . It was a quiet and sorrowful wedding ; Porfiry Petrovitch and Zossimov were invited however . During all this period Razumihin wore an air of resolute determination . Dounia put implicit faith in his carrying out his plans and indeed she could not but believe in him . He displayed a rare strength of will . Among other things he began attending university lectures again in order to take his degree . They were continually making plans for the future ; both counted on settling in Siberia within five years at least . Till then they rested their hopes on Sonia . Pulcheria Alexandrovna was delighted to give her blessing to Dounia's marriage with Razumihin ; but after the marriage she became even more melancholy and anxious . To give her pleasure Razumihin told her how Raskolnikov had looked after the poor student and his decrepit father and how a year ago he had been burnt and injured in rescuing two little children from a fire . These two pieces of news excited Pulcheria Alexandrovna's disordered imagination almost to ecstasy . She was continually talking about them , even entering into conversation with strangers in the street , though Dounia always accompanied her . In public conveyances and shops , wherever she could capture a listener , she would begin the discourse about her son , his article , how he had helped the student , how he had been burnt at the fire , and so on ! Dounia did not know how to restrain her . Apart from the danger of her morbid excitement , there was the risk of someone 's recalling Raskolnikov's name and speaking of the recent trial . Pulcheria Alexandrovna found out the address of the mother of the two children her son had saved and insisted on going to see her . At last her restlessness reached an extreme point . She would sometimes begin to cry suddenly and was often ill and feverishly delirious . One morning she declared that by her reckoning Rodya ought soon to be home , that she remembered when he said good-bye to her he said that they must expect him back in nine months . She began to prepare for his coming , began to do up her room for him , to clean the furniture , to wash and put up new hangings and so on . Dounia was anxious , but said nothing and helped her to arrange the room . After a fatiguing day spent in continual fancies , in joyful day-dreams and tears , Pulcheria Alexandrovna was taken ill in the night and by morning she was feverish and delirious . It was brain fever . She died within a fortnight . In her delirium she dropped words which showed that she knew a great deal more about her son's terrible fate than they had supposed . For a long time Raskolnikov did not know of his mother's death , though a regular correspondence had been maintained from the time he reached Siberia . It was carried on by means of Sonia , who wrote every month to the Razumihins and received an answer with unfailing regularity . At first they found Sonia's letters dry and unsatisfactory , but later on they came to the conclusion that the letters could not be better , for from these letters they received a complete picture of their unfortunate brother's life . Sonia's letters were full of the most matter-of-fact detail , the simplest and clearest description of all Raskolnikov's surroundings as a convict . There was no word of her own hopes , no conjecture as to the future , no description of her feelings . Instead of any attempt to interpret his state of mind and inner life , she gave the simple facts--that is , his own words , an exact account of his health , what he asked for at their interviews , what commission he gave her and so on . All these facts she gave with extraordinary minuteness . The picture of their unhappy brother stood out at last with great clearness and precision . There could be no mistake , because nothing was given but facts . But Dounia and her husband could get little comfort out of the news , especially at first . Sonia wrote that he was constantly sullen and not ready to talk , that he scarcely seemed interested in the news she gave him from their letters , that he sometimes asked after his mother and that when , seeing that he had guessed the truth , she told him at last of her death , she was surprised to find that he did not seem greatly affected by it , not externally at any rate . She told them that , although he seemed so wrapped up in himself and , as it were , shut himself off from everyone--he took a very direct and simple view of his new life ; that he understood his position , expected nothing better for the time , had no ill-founded hopes ( as is so common in his position ) and scarcely seemed surprised at anything in his surroundings , so unlike anything he had known before . She wrote that his health was satisfactory ; he did his work without shirking or seeking to do more ; he was almost indifferent about food , but except on Sundays and holidays the food was so bad that at last he had been glad to accept some money from her , Sonia , to have his own tea every day . He begged her not to trouble about anything else , declaring that all this fuss about him only annoyed him . Sonia wrote further that in prison he shared the same room with the rest , that she had not seen the inside of their barracks , but concluded that they were crowded , miserable and unhealthy ; that he slept on a plank bed with a rug under him and was unwilling to make any other arrangement . But that he lived so poorly and roughly , not from any plan or design , but simply from inattention and indifference . Sonia wrote simply that he had at first shown no interest in her visits , had almost been vexed with her indeed for coming , unwilling to talk and rude to her . But that in the end these visits had become a habit and almost a necessity for him , so that he was positively distressed when she was ill for some days and could not visit him . She used to see him on holidays at the prison gates or in the guard-room , to which he was brought for a few minutes to see her . On working days she would go to see him at work either at the workshops or at the brick kilns , or at the sheds on the banks of the Irtish . About herself , Sonia wrote that she had succeeded in making some acquaintances in the town , that she did sewing , and , as there was scarcely a dressmaker in the town , she was looked upon as an indispensable person in many houses . But she did not mention that the authorities were , through her , interested in Raskolnikov ; that his task was lightened and so on . At last the news came ( Dounia had indeed noticed signs of alarm and uneasiness in the preceding letters ) that he held aloof from everyone , that his fellow prisoners did not like him , that he kept silent for days at a time and was becoming very pale . In the last letter Sonia wrote that he had been taken very seriously ill and was in the convict ward of the hospital . II He was ill a long time . But it was not the horrors of prison life , not the hard labour , the bad food , the shaven head , or the patched clothes that crushed him . What did he care for all those trials and hardships ! he was even glad of the hard work . Physically exhausted , he could at least reckon on a few hours of quiet sleep . And what was the food to him--the thin cabbage soup with beetles floating in it ? In the past as a student he had often not had even that . His clothes were warm and suited to his manner of life . He did not even feel the fetters . Was he ashamed of his shaven head and parti-coloured coat ? Before whom ? Before Sonia ? Sonia was afraid of him , how could he be ashamed before her ? And yet he was ashamed even before Sonia , whom he tortured because of it with his contemptuous rough manner . But it was not his shaven head and his fetters he was ashamed of : his pride had been stung to the quick . It was wounded pride that made him ill . Oh , how happy he would have been if he could have blamed himself ! He could have borne anything then , even shame and disgrace . But he judged himself severely , and his exasperated conscience found no particularly terrible fault in his past , except a simple blunder which might happen to anyone . He was ashamed just because he , Raskolnikov , had so hopelessly , stupidly come to grief through some decree of blind fate , and must humble himself and submit to "" the idiocy "" of a sentence , if he were anyhow to be at peace . Vague and objectless anxiety in the present , and in the future a continual sacrifice leading to nothing--that was all that lay before him . And what comfort was it to him that at the end of eight years he would only be thirty-two and able to begin a new life ! What had he to live for ? What had he to look forward to ? Why should he strive ? To live in order to exist ? Why , he had been ready a thousand times before to give up existence for the sake of an idea , for a hope , even for a fancy . Mere existence had always been too little for him ; he had always wanted more . Perhaps it was just because of the strength of his desires that he had thought himself a man to whom more was permissible than to others . And if only fate would have sent him repentance--burning repentance that would have torn his heart and robbed him of sleep , that repentance , the awful agony of which brings visions of hanging or drowning ! Oh , he would have been glad of it ! Tears and agonies would at least have been life . But he did not repent of his crime . At least he might have found relief in raging at his stupidity , as he had raged at the grotesque blunders that had brought him to prison . But now in prison , in freedom , he thought over and criticised all his actions again and by no means found them so blundering and so grotesque as they had seemed at the fatal time . "" In what way , "" he asked himself , "" was my theory stupider than others that have swarmed and clashed from the beginning of the world ? One has only to look at the thing quite independently , broadly , and uninfluenced by commonplace ideas , and my idea will by no means seem so ... strange . Oh , sceptics and halfpenny philosophers , why do you halt half-way ! "" "" Why does my action strike them as so horrible ? "" he said to himself . "" Is it because it was a crime ? What is meant by crime ? My conscience is at rest . Of course , it was a legal crime , of course , the letter of the law was broken and blood was shed . Well , punish me for the letter of the law ... and that 's enough . Of course , in that case many of the benefactors of mankind who snatched power for themselves instead of inheriting it ought to have been punished at their first steps . But those men succeeded and so they were right , and I did n't , and so I had no right to have taken that step . "" It was only in that that he recognised his criminality , only in the fact that he had been unsuccessful and had confessed it . He suffered too from the question : why had he not killed himself ? Why had he stood looking at the river and preferred to confess ? Was the desire to live so strong and was it so hard to overcome it ? Had not Svidrigaïlov overcome it , although he was afraid of death ? In misery he asked himself this question , and could not understand that , at the very time he had been standing looking into the river , he had perhaps been dimly conscious of the fundamental falsity in himself and his convictions . He did n't understand that that consciousness might be the promise of a future crisis , of a new view of life and of his future resurrection . He preferred to attribute it to the dead weight of instinct which he could not step over , again through weakness and meanness . He looked at his fellow prisoners and was amazed to see how they all loved life and prized it . It seemed to him that they loved and valued life more in prison than in freedom . What terrible agonies and privations some of them , the tramps for instance , had endured ! Could they care so much for a ray of sunshine , for the primeval forest , the cold spring hidden away in some unseen spot , which the tramp had marked three years before , and longed to see again , as he might to see his sweetheart , dreaming of the green grass round it and the bird singing in the bush ? As he went on he saw still more inexplicable examples . In prison , of course , there was a great deal he did not see and did not want to see ; he lived as it were with downcast eyes . It was loathsome and unbearable for him to look . But in the end there was much that surprised him and he began , as it were involuntarily , to notice much that he had not suspected before . What surprised him most of all was the terrible impossible gulf that lay between him and all the rest . They seemed to be a different species , and he looked at them and they at him with distrust and hostility . He felt and knew the reasons of his isolation , but he would never have admitted till then that those reasons were so deep and strong . There were some Polish exiles , political prisoners , among them . They simply looked down upon all the rest as ignorant churls ; but Raskolnikov could not look upon them like that . He saw that these ignorant men were in many respects far wiser than the Poles . There were some Russians who were just as contemptuous , a former officer and two seminarists . Raskolnikov saw their mistake as clearly . He was disliked and avoided by everyone ; they even began to hate him at last--why , he could not tell . Men who had been far more guilty despised and laughed at his crime . "" You 're a gentleman , "" they used to say . "" You should n ' t hack about with an axe ; that 's not a gentleman's work . "" The second week in Lent , his turn came to take the sacrament with his gang . He went to church and prayed with the others . A quarrel broke out one day , he did not know how . All fell on him at once in a fury . "" You 're an infidel ! You do n't believe in God , "" they shouted . "" You ought to be killed . "" He had never talked to them about God nor his belief , but they wanted to kill him as an infidel . He said nothing . One of the prisoners rushed at him in a perfect frenzy . Raskolnikov awaited him calmly and silently ; his eyebrows did not quiver , his face did not flinch . The guard succeeded in intervening between him and his assailant , or there would have been bloodshed . There was another question he could not decide : why were they all so fond of Sonia ? She did not try to win their favour ; she rarely met them , sometimes only she came to see him at work for a moment . And yet everybody knew her , they knew that she had come out to follow him , knew how and where she lived . She never gave them money , did them no particular services . Only once at Christmas she sent them all presents of pies and rolls . But by degrees closer relations sprang up between them and Sonia . She would write and post letters for them to their relations . Relations of the prisoners who visited the town , at their instructions , left with Sonia presents and money for them . Their wives and sweethearts knew her and used to visit her . And when she visited Raskolnikov at work , or met a party of the prisoners on the road , they all took off their hats to her . "" Little mother Sofya Semyonovna , you are our dear , good little mother , "" coarse branded criminals said to that frail little creature . She would smile and bow to them and everyone was delighted when she smiled . They even admired her gait and turned round to watch her walking ; they admired her too for being so little , and , in fact , did not know what to admire her most for . They even came to her for help in their illnesses . He was in the hospital from the middle of Lent till after Easter . When he was better , he remembered the dreams he had had while he was feverish and delirious . He dreamt that the whole world was condemned to a terrible new strange plague that had come to Europe from the depths of Asia . All were to be destroyed except a very few chosen . Some new sorts of microbes were attacking the bodies of men , but these microbes were endowed with intelligence and will . Men attacked by them became at once mad and furious . But never had men considered themselves so intellectual and so completely in possession of the truth as these sufferers , never had they considered their decisions , their scientific conclusions , their moral convictions so infallible . Whole villages , whole towns and peoples went mad from the infection . All were excited and did not understand one another . Each thought that he alone had the truth and was wretched looking at the others , beat himself on the breast , wept , and wrung his hands . They did not know how to judge and could not agree what to consider evil and what good ; they did not know whom to blame , whom to justify . Men killed each other in a sort of senseless spite . They gathered together in armies against one another , but even on the march the armies would begin attacking each other , the ranks would be broken and the soldiers would fall on each other , stabbing and cutting , biting and devouring each other . The alarm bell was ringing all day long in the towns ; men rushed together , but why they were summoned and who was summoning them no one knew . The most ordinary trades were abandoned , because everyone proposed his own ideas , his own improvements , and they could not agree . The land too was abandoned . Men met in groups , agreed on something , swore to keep together , but at once began on something quite different from what they had proposed . They accused one another , fought and killed each other . There were conflagrations and famine . All men and all things were involved in destruction . The plague spread and moved further and further . Only a few men could be saved in the whole world . They were a pure chosen people , destined to found a new race and a new life , to renew and purify the earth , but no one had seen these men , no one had heard their words and their voices . Raskolnikov was worried that this senseless dream haunted his memory so miserably , the impression of this feverish delirium persisted so long . The second week after Easter had come . There were warm bright spring days ; in the prison ward the grating windows under which the sentinel paced were opened . Sonia had only been able to visit him twice during his illness ; each time she had to obtain permission , and it was difficult . But she often used to come to the hospital yard , especially in the evening , sometimes only to stand a minute and look up at the windows of the ward . One evening , when he was almost well again , Raskolnikov fell asleep . On waking up he chanced to go to the window , and at once saw Sonia in the distance at the hospital gate . She seemed to be waiting for someone . Something stabbed him to the heart at that minute . He shuddered and moved away from the window . Next day Sonia did not come , nor the day after ; he noticed that he was expecting her uneasily . At last he was discharged . On reaching the prison he learnt from the convicts that Sofya Semyonovna was lying ill at home and was unable to go out . He was very uneasy and sent to inquire after her ; he soon learnt that her illness was not dangerous . Hearing that he was anxious about her , Sonia sent him a pencilled note , telling him that she was much better , that she had a slight cold and that she would soon , very soon come and see him at his work . His heart throbbed painfully as he read it . Again it was a warm bright day . Early in the morning , at six o ' clock , he went off to work on the river bank , where they used to pound alabaster and where there was a kiln for baking it in a shed . There were only three of them sent . One of the convicts went with the guard to the fortress to fetch a tool ; the other began getting the wood ready and laying it in the kiln . Raskolnikov came out of the shed on to the river bank , sat down on a heap of logs by the shed and began gazing at the wide deserted river . From the high bank a broad landscape opened before him , the sound of singing floated faintly audible from the other bank . In the vast steppe , bathed in sunshine , he could just see , like black specks , the nomads' tents . There there was freedom , there other men were living , utterly unlike those here ; there time itself seemed to stand still , as though the age of Abraham and his flocks had not passed . Raskolnikov sat gazing , his thoughts passed into day-dreams , into contemplation ; he thought of nothing , but a vague restlessness excited and troubled him . Suddenly he found Sonia beside him ; she had come up noiselessly and sat down at his side . It was still quite early ; the morning chill was still keen . She wore her poor old burnous and the green shawl ; her face still showed signs of illness , it was thinner and paler . She gave him a joyful smile of welcome , but held out her hand with her usual timidity . She was always timid of holding out her hand to him and sometimes did not offer it at all , as though afraid he would repel it . He always took her hand as though with repugnance , always seemed vexed to meet her and was sometimes obstinately silent throughout her visit . Sometimes she trembled before him and went away deeply grieved . But now their hands did not part . He stole a rapid glance at her and dropped his eyes on the ground without speaking . They were alone , no one had seen them . The guard had turned away for the time . How it happened he did not know . But all at once something seemed to seize him and fling him at her feet . He wept and threw his arms round her knees . For the first instant she was terribly frightened and she turned pale . She jumped up and looked at him trembling . But at the same moment she understood , and a light of infinite happiness came into her eyes . She knew and had no doubt that he loved her beyond everything and that at last the moment had come .... They wanted to speak , but could not ; tears stood in their eyes . They were both pale and thin ; but those sick pale faces were bright with the dawn of a new future , of a full resurrection into a new life . They were renewed by love ; the heart of each held infinite sources of life for the heart of the other . They resolved to wait and be patient . They had another seven years to wait , and what terrible suffering and what infinite happiness before them ! But he had risen again and he knew it and felt it in all his being , while she--she only lived in his life . On the evening of the same day , when the barracks were locked , Raskolnikov lay on his plank bed and thought of her . He had even fancied that day that all the convicts who had been his enemies looked at him differently ; he had even entered into talk with them and they answered him in a friendly way . He remembered that now , and thought it was bound to be so . Was n ' t everything now bound to be changed ? He thought of her . He remembered how continually he had tormented her and wounded her heart . He remembered her pale and thin little face . But these recollections scarcely troubled him now ; he knew with what infinite love he would now repay all her sufferings . And what were all , all the agonies of the past ! Everything , even his crime , his sentence and imprisonment , seemed to him now in the first rush of feeling an external , strange fact with which he had no concern . But he could not think for long together of anything that evening , and he could not have analysed anything consciously ; he was simply feeling . Life had stepped into the place of theory and something quite different would work itself out in his mind . Under his pillow lay the New Testament . He took it up mechanically . The book belonged to Sonia ; it was the one from which she had read the raising of Lazarus to him . At first he was afraid that she would worry him about religion , would talk about the gospel and pester him with books . But to his great surprise she had not once approached the subject and had not even offered him the Testament . He had asked her for it himself not long before his illness and she brought him the book without a word . Till now he had not opened it . He did not open it now , but one thought passed through his mind : "" Can her convictions not be mine now ? Her feelings , her aspirations at least .... "" She too had been greatly agitated that day , and at night she was taken ill again . But she was so happy--and so unexpectedly happy--that she was almost frightened of her happiness . Seven years , only seven years ! At the beginning of their happiness at some moments they were both ready to look on those seven years as though they were seven days . He did not know that the new life would not be given him for nothing , that he would have to pay dearly for it , that it would cost him great striving , great suffering . But that is the beginning of a new story--the story of the gradual renewal of a man , the story of his gradual regeneration , of his passing from one world into another , of his initiation into a new unknown life . That might be the subject of a new story , but our present story is ended ."	Prose/Lyrical
118	"As you type in the search box on Google Web Search , Google's autocomplete algorithm offers searches that might be similar to the one you 're typing . Start to type [ new york ] -- even just [ new y ] -- and you 'll be able to pick searches for New York City , New York Times , and New York University ( to name just a few ) . Why it 's helpful Rest your fingers . The algorithm predicts search queries in real-time , so typing [ golden gate b ] and then clicking ' golden gate bridge ' is faster and easier than typing it out . Catch a mistake . Did you mean : Melbourne Australia ? Start searching for [ melborn ] and Google's algorithm will present more common spellings for what you might be trying to find . Repeat a favorite search . If you 're signed in to your Google Account and have Web History enabled , the algorithm may show some predicted queries based on searches that you 've done in the past . Data that you send to Google is protected by Google's privacy policy . Find other useful information . Even if you 've disabled Google Instant , there are some features in autocomplete to connect you immediately with the information you 're looking for . For example , if you type [ weather brus ] you may see the current weather in Brussels , Belgium , described right in the list of search terms . This also works for flight status , local time zones , area codes , package tracking , certain answers , definitions , calculations , plus currency and unit conversions . How autocomplete works As you type , Google's algorithm predicts and displays search queries based on other users' search activities . In addition , if you 're signed in to your Google Account and have Web History enabled , you may see search queries from relevant searches that you 've done in the past . All of the predicted queries that are shown in the drop-down list have been typed previously by Google users . For certain queries , Google will show separate predictions for just the last few words . Below the word that you 're typing in the search box , you 'll see a smaller drop-down list containing predictions based only on the last words of your query . While each prediction shown in the drop-down list has been typed before by Google users , the combination of your primary text along with the completion may be unique . Predicted queries are algorithmically determined based on a number of purely objective factors ( including popularity of search terms ) without human intervention . The autocomplete data is updated frequently to offer fresh and rising search queries . Does Google exclude any users' searches from autocomplete ? The search queries that you see as part of autocomplete are a reflection of the search activity of all web users . Just like the web , the search queries presented may include silly or strange or surprising terms and phrases . While we always strive to neutrally and objectively reflect the diversity of content on the web ( some good , some objectionable ) , we also apply a narrow set of removal policies for pornography , violence , hate speech , and terms that are frequently used to find content that infringes copyrights . Why do some of the searches seem so strange ? In some cases , there may be a search term that seems surprising to you , but after doing some searching on the web , you may discover that it 's a popular phrase online for some reason that you did n't anticipate . Queries in autocomplete are algorithmically determined based on a number of objective factors ( including search term popularity ) without manual intervention . Why do n't I see any predictions for a particular topic ? If no predicted searches appear for a particular word or topic , it 's likely due to one of the following reasons : The search term is not popular enough . Queries that are n ' t popular are less likely to be useful in autocomplete . A minimum algorithmic threshold for popularity helps us fight spam and improves the likelihood that the search queries you do see are relevant to your search . We also make regionally appropriate adjustments to autocomplete , so the predicted queries that you see on Google Australia ( google . com . au ) or Google France ( google . fr ) may be different from those you see on Google . com . The search term is too fresh . It can take some time for newly popular search terms to consistently appear in autocomplete . While you 'll usually be able to discover new queries within an hour , it can sometimes take a few days to a few weeks for recently popular search queries to start appearing in autocomplete . The search term violates our autocomplete policies . We aim to provide you with relevant search queries , but we exclude a narrow class of search queries related to pornography , violence , hate speech , and copyright infringement . The search term was mistaken for a policy violation . Our policy review process is neither perfect nor instantaneous . There might be occasions where the system aims to exclude a query in one language that would be perfectly fine in another language . For example , we might inadvertently exclude a compound word because it includes a translation of a bad word from another language . Control personalized predictions If you do n't want to see search queries based on your web history , you can control how personalized autocomplete works . Here are your options : Sign out of your Google Account while you search on Google . If you are n ' t signed in to a Google Account , your search experience may be customized based on past search information linked to a cookie on your browser . Learn how to turn off these customizations . Remove particular searches from your Web History at www . google . com / history or by clicking the "" Remove "" links that appear beside personalized predictions . Remove Web History from your Google Account . Ask a question or report a problem with autocomplete If you see a problem with the predictions in autocomplete , it 's probably caused by one of the scenarios described above and we are already working to address it . If you have feedback or questions about autocomplete , you can post them in the Google Web Search Help Forum ."	Instruction
1455	"Project Frog's technology improves traditional building construction methods by combining semi-custom designs with a pre-engineered kit of energy-efficient building components . This enables higher quality , more environmentally sustainable , faster and cheaper construction . Through advanced performance modeling , Project Frog analyzes how its buildings will perform in each location , allowing owners to optimize a building kit to match their desired performance . The kits are delivered to project sites ready for assembly , and typically take one to six months to construct – less than half the time required for traditional construction . Project Frog's buildings use at least 25 percent less energy than the strictest building codes in the United States , and as much as 80 percent less energy in certain parts of the country . Project Frog manufactures its commercial building systems for educational and government organizations , healthcare offices and retail spaces . "" We make the complicated and lengthy process of new construction faster and easier for our customers by providing a kit of high precision , sustainable parts that are optimized based on the structure's size , use and location , "" said Ann Hand , CEO of Project Frog . Construction of the Project Frog building at GE's John F. Welch Leadership Development Center is expected to be completed by the end of this year . Established in 1956 , the Learning Center , also known as "" Crotonville , "" was the first of its kind and has been at the forefront of real-world application for the latest thinking in organizational development , leadership , innovation and change . Construction of the Project Frog building is part of a broader venture that is aimed at rethinking Crotonville to support 21st century learning by embedding new attributes to the curriculum , redesigning facilities and empowering participants to own their own learning experience . GE is committed to pursuing LEED certification – an internationally-recognized green building certification system developed by the US Green Building Council – for select buildings at Crotonville . About Greener Capital Greener Capital invests in high-growth , early-to-mid-stage Clean Technology companies . The firm , based in the San Francisco Bay Area , was founded in 2009 by Charles Finnie . Greener Capital recently did a first closing on its second fund , which is targeted at $ 125 million . 100 % of the firm's Fund I investors have committed to participating in Fund II . About RockPort Capital Partners Note to Editors : Caption for photo : Shown here is a rendering of the planned Project Frog building at the GE Learning Center in Ossining , NY . ( Credit : Project Frog ) Downloads Featured Videos News Updates"	Promotion
1495	Automation and control systems make it possible to open and close the shades or blinds in a home from almost any location . Some systems use a remote control ; others have programmable timers that control the shades . Automated motorized shades provide a number of benefits over traditional window dressings . Comfort and Convenience Comfort and convenience are two benefits of motorized shades especially when they are attached to a timer . Shades can be lowered automatically when the sun hits the side of the home . This prevents rooms from heating up during the day . The shades can also be controlled with a central panel or remote control . This makes it very convenient to adjust the shades throughout the day whenever needed without having to move to every window in every room . Energy Savings Shades attached to automation and control systems will save homeowners money during every season . Closing shades automatically in the summer months keeps rooms cooler so air conditioning can be used less . On cold evenings , closing the shades automatically at night helps when the wind causes uncomfortable drafts in the home . Motorized shades will increase the insulating capacity of the windows , which will lower energy loss and increase the effectiveness of heating and cooling systems . Minimal Maintenance Traditional shades that are moved manually by the homeowner can encounter a number of problems that will require regular maintenance . Shades or blinds can come off the track , which can damage the material . Some shades or blinds can actually become caught in opening or closing mechanisms . This has the potential to damage the shade beyond repair if the components break . Automation and control systems for shades do not rely on physically aligning the mechanisms and materials . The shade will open and close correctly every time without problems . This reduces the need for maintenance over time . Security and Safety The type of shade automation systems that professional electrical services will install can improve the security of a home . Burglars are more likely to attempt robbing a home when it appears no one is home . Programmable shades can work with timed lights to open or close regularly , even if no one is at home or the family is on vacation . The automation becomes an effective deterrent that will keep criminals away . Additionally , motorized shades do not have cords or other hanging parts that can create a hazard for children and pets . Distinctive Appearance Motorized shades or blinds provide a distinctive appearance and atmosphere in the home . They fit the windows better than loose hanging dressings . The typical and sometimes unsightly opening and closing fixtures or cords are not present on automated shades . Since most people do not have motorized shades , they create a unique environment . Opening and closing shades with a remote control can leave a lasting impression on guests . Flexibility Automated shades are more flexible than traditional window dressings when it comes to positioning and functionality . Providers of professional electrical services can install the shades over windows that are too high to reach or in inconvenient locations . The automated controls allow the shades to remain functional whether or not the windows are easily accessible .	Promotion
1321	"Do n't think that if you are not participating in the social media conversation that your reputation ca n't be ruined online by a digital attack ,  said Torrenzano . "" Others will create false information or blogs about you or your brand that can cause significant damage with a keystroke . And you have to know how to thwart or respond to those attacks . "" Describing how "" digital mosh pit "" tactics such as new media mayhem , truth remix and silent slashers can cause reputation havoc , Torrenzano noted how the Seven Digital Shields articulated in his book can preventor counter the digital attacks . Co-authored with Mark Davis , the book , "" Digital Assassination : Protecting Your Reputation , Brand , Or Business Against Online Attacks , "" which rose to number 3 on Amazon , is available at www.DigitalAssassinationBook.com . "" The eight digital cycles that make up one 24-hour day requires that communicators be prepared to respond to a digital reputation attack at least within six to eight hours if not sooner , "" said Torrenzano . "" Allowing a day or two to go by without responding means missing eight to 16 digital cycles . That gives too much time for negative PR to go viral . The response must be much quicker or millions of dollars could be lost as a result of the unanswered attack . "" Torrenzano also noted that at times it helps to have a sense of humor about the Internet to "" keep our balance . "" Knowing when and when not to respond to the Seven Digital Swords is crucial . And it 's all in his book . Newsletter signup Subscribe to blog"	Promotion
1644	"Victor Englebert / Photo Researchers Like hiking ? Then come and explore the plants and animals of seven of the world's major mountain ranges ! From the towering Himalayas to the austere Atlas Mountains , mountain ecosystems are chock full of interesting organisms . Often considered biological hotspots , many of these regions feature life forms with amazing adaptations to enable survival in rugged terrain and extreme weather conditions . Learn more about montane flora and fauna with this quick tour through a variety of mountains across the globe . Great Dividing Range Ron Dorman – Bruce Coleman Inc. A hike along Australia's Great Dividing Range would reveal a series of plateaus and low mountain ranges roughly paralleling the coasts of Queensland , New South Wales , and Victoria . The mountain range extends some 2,300 miles ( 3 , 700 km ) from the Cape York Peninsula , Queensland , to the Grampians in Victoria Bass Strait between Australia and Tasmania . In Queensland , the mountains average is 2,000 – 3 , 000 feet ( 600 – 900 meters ) in elevation , but they rise as high as 5,000 feet ( 1 , 500 meters ) in the Bellenden Ker and McPherson ranges and the Lamington Plateau . Farther south , a segment known as the Australian Alps , near the New South Wales – Victoria border , contains Australia's highest peak , Mount Kosciuszko ( 7 , 310 feet ) . Since the Great Dividing Range is not very high compared to other mountain ranges , few animals specifically adapted to mountainous environments occur there . Tree kangaroos and bird-wing butterflies occur in the rainforests of the mountainous northeast . Some bird species , such as the galah and the Australian magpie are found throughout Australia . Much of the Great Dividing Range is defined by forested areas of acacias , eucalyptus ( see photo ) , and casuarinas , with hummock grasses and flowering plants , including banksias , in the undergrowth . The vegetation on the western slopes is predominately subtropical or temperate woodlands of eucalyptus and scrub . The Wollemi pine is a "" living fossil "" that was discovered in Wollemi National Park in 1994 . Ethiopian Highlands Although Ethiopia's complex relief defies easy classification , of the five topographic regions in the country only two ( the Western Highlands and the Eastern Highlands ) might be classified as mountain ecosystems . The most spectacular portion is the North Central massifs in the Western Highlands ; these form the roof of Ethiopia , the highest being Mount Ras Dejen at 14,872 feet ( 4 , 533 meters ) . Lake Tana ( see photo ) – Ethiopia's largest inland lake and the main reservoir for the Blue Nile River – is located in this region , at an elevation of about 6,000 feet ( 1 , 800 meters ) . Another region , the Western Lowlands , are not what one would call low . They stretch north-south along the border with Sudan and South Sudan and include the lower valleys of the Blue Nile , Tekeze , and Baro rivers . With elevations of about 3,300 feet ( 1 , 000 meters ) , these "" lowlands "" are some of the hottest places on the planet . Several familiar African mammals live in Ethiopia , such as lions , leopards , elephants , giraffes , rhinoceroses , and wild buffalo , but these species rarely venture into the mountains . Uniquely Ethiopian mountain-dwelling species include the walia ibex of the Simien Mountains , the mountain nyala ( a kind of antelope ) , the Simien jackal , and the gelada monkey . These creatures are endangered , and they appear in both the Western and Eastern highlands in numbers ranging from a few hundred for the walia ibex to a few thousand for the others . The primary vegetation types of the Ethiopian Highlands are moorland , grassland , and herb meadow . While much of the region is predominantly grass and heathland , a number of other plants are also characteristic . Punctuating the landscape is the lovely Rosa abyssinica , an endemic rose bush that towers up to 6.5 feet ( 2 meters ) high . The kosso tree is used in traditional medicine as a vermifuge , and the wild African olive tree is found in many places throughout the range . One of the most unusual species is the giant lobelia , which reaches a height of 20 feet ( 6 meters ) when flowering . Himalayas Steven Powers / The Wildlife Collection For thousands of years the Himalayas have held a profound significance for the peoples of South Asia , as their literature , mythologies , and religions reflect . Since ancient times the vast glaciated heights have attracted the attention of the pilgrim mountaineers of India , who coined the Sanskrit name Himalaya – from hima ( "" snow "" ) and alaya ( "" abode "" ) – for this great mountain system . In contemporary times the Himalayas have offered the greatest attraction and the greatest challenge to mountaineers throughout the world . The Himalayas have more than 110 peaks rising to elevations of 24,000 feet ( 7 , 300 meters ) or more above sea level , including Kanchenjunga at the border of India ( Sikkim state ) and Nepal ( see photo ) . One of these peaks is Mount Everest ( Tibetan : Chomolungma ; Chinese : Qomolangma Feng ; Nepali : Sagarmatha ) , the world's highest , with an elevation of 29,035 feet ( 8 , 850 meters ) . The fauna of the eastern Himalayas is similar to that of the southern Chinese and Southeast Asian region . The animal life of the western Himalayas , however , have more in common with the Mediterranean , Ethiopian , and Turkmenian regions . Elephants and rhinoceroses are restricted to parts of the forested Tarai region – moist or marshy areas , now largely drained – at the base of the low hills in southern Nepal . Asiatic black bears , clouded leopards , langurs ( a long-tailed Asian monkey ) , and Himalayan goat antelopes ( e.g. , the tahr ) are some of the denizens of the Himalayan forests . In the foothills one may find the Indian rhinoceros , musk deer , and the Kashmir stag ( hangul ) , but in small numbers . In remote sections of the Himalayas , at higher elevations , snow leopards , brown bears , lesser pandas , and Tibetan yaks have limited populations . Above the tree line the most numerous animals , however , are diverse types of insects , spiders , and mites , which are the only animal forms that can live as high up as 20,700 feet ( 6 , 300 meters ) . The Himalayas are rich in floral biodiversity . On the western side of the range , the lower shrublands are defined by beautiful rhododendrons and meadows of grasses . In the eastern region , broadleaf forests receive almost 80 inches ( 200 centimeters ) of annual rainfall and feature indigenous oaks and maples with orchids and ferns in the understory . As one ascends the mountains , the temperate sub-alpine conifer forests dominate the landscape with pine , hemlock , spruce , and fir . The Himalayan balsam and other small , flowering plants can be found above the treeline in the alpine regions . Atlas Mountains Tom McHugh / Photo Researchers The Atlas system is a series of mountain ranges in northwestern Africa that run generally southwest to northeast across Morocco , Algeria , and Tunisia . They extend for more than 1,200 miles ( 2 , 000 kilometers ) from the Moroccan port of Agadir in the southwest to the Tunisian capital of Tunis in the northeast . Mount Toubkal at 13,665 feet ( 4 , 165 meters ) is the highest point in the Atlas Mountains . Other imposing peaks in the Atlas include Mount Tidirhine at 8,058 feet ( 2 , 456 meters ) , the rugged bastion of the Ouarsenis Massif ( which reaches a height of 6,512 feet ) , the Great Kabylie , which reaches 7,572 feet ( 2 , 308 meters ) at the peak of Lalla Khedidja , and Mount Chelia ( 7 , 638 feet ) . Much of the land in the Atlas has been cleared for agriculture , and a small fraction of the forest cover remains . Animal life in the mountains is also in retreat . There remain only a few jackals , a few tribes of monkeys ( Barbary macaques , the only African ape found north of the Sahara ) at higher elevations , and occasional herds of wild boars in the oak woods – found in the northern part of the range . With low rainfall and high rates of soil erosion , the Atlas Mountains are fairly sparsely vegetated . The areas with the highest rainfall feature moist forests of cork oaks with an undergrowth of arbutus ( cane apple ) and heather shrubs dotted with carpets of rockroses and lavender . Dry regions are populated with green oak and arborvitae ( a species of pine tree ) which form light , dry forests with a thin and bushy undergrowth . Stands of cedar dominate the higher altitudes , though the dry summits are often reduced to scattered stands of green oak and juniper trees . 1 Rocky Mountains Donnie Sexton / Travel Montana The Rocky Mountains are a massive cordillera made up of more than 100 separate mountain ranges stretching from Alberta and British Columbia to New Mexico . The spectacular vistas of the Rockies , such as St. Mary's Lake in Montana's Glacier National Park ( see photo ) , have inspired countless mountain climbers , explorers , and even songwriters ; John Denver wrote his famous anthem "" Rocky Mountain High "" about these uplands in 1972 . Among the large mammals emblematic of the rugged backcountry are the black bear , grizzly bear , mountain lion , and wolverine . Bighorn sheep and mountain goats inhabit the high crags in summer and migrate to the lower slopes for the winter months . Members of the deer family , such as the caribou , elk ( wapiti ) , mule deer , and white-tailed deer also migrate between alpine meadows and subalpine forests ; the solitary moose lumbers across northern lakes , streams , and marshy areas , feeding on willow foliage and aquatic plants . Wolves , brought to near extinction by human predation , remain rare but have resurged since 1970 as their importance in the wilderness ecosystem has come to be appreciated . Smaller mammals of the lower elevations include the least chipmunk , red squirrel , Columbian ground squirrel , black-footed ferret , and marmot . Far below the tree line , one can walk amongst beautiful forests dominated by ponderosa pines and quaking aspen . Ascend a bit higher and the forests change to subalpine spruces and firs that get progressively more gnarled and stunted with the increase in elevation . Above the tree line , one will find alpine meadows of small , herbaceous plants that are hardier than their appearance would have you believe . These include blue columbine , snow buttercup , and pink phlox ."	Information/Explanation
1611	"The ADGE Services Exchange A new way to co-operate in an increasingly virtual world : the virtual employee . Small business people face a typical problem : You ca n't be excellent in all areas . Some of us became real good in ARx programming or build dialogue boxes on the fly or are good at writing the manual , creating localized versions of software , creating the installation routines and help files . ADGE ( Autodesk Developer Group - Europe ) maintains a database of services . Every member is free to enter all services they can offer to other members ; every ADGE member can access the database to find the services you need . Your participation at the ADGE Services Exchange is included with your membership fee , so it costs nothing . We encourage you not to sell services but to exchange them . If you create my ARx module , maybe I can create your installation routine . You can download your copy of the data base from the ADGE library on CompuServe ( file : SERVICES . ZIP ) . The database access program is a small AutoLISP program -- so everyone can run it . We will update the file frequently , so download the latest version before looking for services . If you do n't have access to CompuServe , contact ADGE for the latest disk-based version . You are requested to keep the database confidential . "" And at the bottom are pointers to my VRML App-Killers page ( even SGI's browser crashes on one of the files ) and VRML Illumination Comparison page , which shows the problem with the loose definition of materials in VRML v1 . 0 -- each browser renders the same VRML scene differently . "" What Is ' CAD ' Short For ? For most of us , "" CAD "" is short for computer-aided design or computer-aided drafting . For the public at large , "" CAD "" refers to men having dubious relationships with England's royal females . From the Newsbytes news service , we find another definition for "" CAD "" : "" Doppler sound wave technology is being used to measure the rate of blood flow through blocked coronary arteries ... Called a FloWire , the device helps determine the severity of coronary artery disease ( CAD ) , and whether patients are likely to experience recurrence of artery lesions in the future . "" Users Find 201 Bugs in AutoCAD Release 13c4 The unauthorized AutoCAD R13 bug list is now in its seventh edition , reporting a total of 425 items . Bug collector Steve Johnson 100251.2544@compuserve.com says the eighth edition can be expected soon . Here is the summary of bugs found by users ( not Autodesk ) of AutoCAD : "" This list is not intended to be used as a scorecard to see how well Autodesk is doing at fixing bugs . Autodesk have their own bug list and assign their own priorities about which bugs should be fixed first . However , because this list includes various items that are not bugs in the current version , it is possible to get the wrong impression of the current state of Release 13 . This list will continue to grow , even if the total number of current bugs decreases with each update . "" Bugs that are partially fixed are considered current for the purposes of this table . This table does purport not show the total number of bugs in each version of Release 13 , rather the number of bugs from this list in the ten incremental versions : WorldCAD Access is the official Web site for the unauthorized AutoCAD Release 13 bug list . You can view the seven editions on-line with any Web browser or download complete PkZIP files in either ASCII text or Word 2 format at : http://haven.uniserve.com/~ralphg/ Global Internet Service Even though the Internet is global ( there 's even sites in the Antarctica ) , your Internet Service Provider is n't . That means globe-trotters and road warriors might need to dial long-distance to access the Internet . Now the Newbytes news service reports that "" a group of ten Internet service providers from seven Asian nations and the United States have become founding members of the new Global Reach Internet Consortium ( GRIC ) , a group set up by Santa Clara-based Aimnet to offer a worldwide Internet roaming system . The new service allows customers of any of the member ISPs to access the Internet via lines of other member ISPs when travelling . "" Autodesk Switches Support to Integer Numbers One argument between CAD vendors is whether integer or real numbers are better for storing data . MicroStation and Cadvance use integers ; CadKey and AutoCAD use floating point numbers . But recently Autodesk reversed its preference . From the documentation for DWF ( drawing Web format , its new 2D vector file format ) , here is the argument Autodesk makes for switching to integers : "" Thirty-one-bit integer values are used [ in DWF ] because they allow for more precision and greater computing speed than 32-bit floating-point values . Out of a floating-point number's 32 bits , eight bits are used to store exponent and sign information , leaving only 24 bits of true precision ( not to be confused with a floating point number's large range ) . "" If a map were drawn with [ DWF's ] 31-bit integer coordinates , over 21,000 kilometers ( approximately 12,000 miles ) of distance could be uniquely resolved down to one-centimeter ( approximately a half-inch ) increments . If 32-bit floating-point coordinates were used , only 167 kilometers ( approximately 100 miles ) could be resolved to this level of detail . "" The End of TESS , As We Knew It TESS ( or The Tesselation Times ) was a weekly email newsletter , sort of like this upFront . eZine newsletter . For its 3,000 readers , the staff of 3D Artist magazine put together news about the 3D graphics , CAD , and VRML industry -- oft times scooping the mainline magazines by a month or more . Earier this month , TESS reduced operations as a victim of Internet Economics . If you recall , the idea behind Internet Economics is that you make lots of money by giving product away for free . Hey , it certainly worked well enough for Netscape . Editor / publisher Bill Allen wrote this in TESS's final editorial : "" In business , one must experiment to find out what works and what does n't . Last December we considered eliminating * The Tessellation Times * as an experiment that had n't worked as intended . But TESS provides communications we need to keep open with our magazine subscribers , so we are moving forward in a new direction . "" TESS now will be much briefer , dropping most reporting on shows , insider business news , technology , and programming . Instead we will stick to what everyday professional desktop 3D graphics users actually need to do their work better . TESS will continue to be freely available on our Web and ftp sites , but only will be broadcast to current magazine subscribers and advertisers ( no comp or other free broadcast after this , Tess # 617 ) . "" June Issue of the CAD ++ VRML Newsletter "" Attack of the Killer Internet CAD Standards "" is the headline for the June , 1996 , issue of the CAD ++ VRML Newsletter . The publication calls itself "" The # 1 Newsletter for CAD on the Internet . "" Autodesk has declared that "" There is currently no standard for CAD on the Web . "" The article describes the many different ways that four CAD vendors -- Autodesk , Bentley Systems , CadKey , and Intergraph -- desperately hope to be that new standard for CAD on the Internet . The issue of CAD ++ VRML features : Reviews of alpha and beta CAD-for-Internet products being offered by four CAD vendors . CAD on the Internet Survey Due to the slow rate of CAD vendors returning surveys , we 'll delay reporting the results of our survey of how CAD vendors are attacking the Internet . If you are a CAD vendor interested in participating , send email to ralphg@xyzpress.com ."	Promotion
624	6 : 23 PM | May 30 , 2006 meme Mr Rutt Tagged me with this Meme ... I AM : Happy I WANT : Nothing more then to continue to be happy . I HATE : People who dont say things to your face I MISS : My grandma . I FEAR : that I wont get my job again . I HEAR : Music , all the time , and I love my music : ) I WONDER : if .... I REGRET : Nothing , life is too short . Everyone makes mistakes . I AM NOT : As stupid as people think , honestly ... I DANCE : I just dont dance , its safer . I SING : when Im in the car . I SEE : erm , things ... I CRY : Occasionally when Im drunk . I AM NOT ALWAYS : thinking , in fact hardly ever . I MAKE WITH MY HANDS : things work . I WRITE : bollocks I CONFUSE : myself , and probably Sarah G when im trying to explain something ! I NEED : success I SHOULD : be more realistic I START : thinking I FINISH : several seconds later . Im going to pass this on too ...	Opinion/Argumentation
437	"MSDS are documents describing the known hazards associated with a material , indicating safe handling procedures and recommending responses to accidents and thus are invaluable sources of safety information . They are prepared by the chemical suppliers and by UK law must be sent to you if you buy a chemical ( CHIP2 ) but can be requested even if you are only thinking of buying . If you already have the chemical but the MSDS is lost or the material is so old that none came with it , most manufacturers are happy to Fax a relevant MSDS on request . Many even make compilations of their data sheets available free of charge . If you order a chemical , you are strongly advised to read the MSDS that comes with it and to file it away in a safe place for future reference . A laboratory library of MSDS relevant to the chemicals kept there constitutes a valuable safety resource . ( In the United States the law requires that MSDS be kept available for all materials in an establishment . ) How to read an MSDS First of all , the MSDS from different manufacturers are usually different in layout and the amount of detail they give . However a typical MSDS delivered in the UK will contain ( this is taken from the Fisons model ) the chemical name of the compound and its CAS Number ( Chemical Abstracts Number ) , perhaps some other identifying number , a product code and the name of the supplier . If the material is a mixture , its composition will be given . Regulatory information is often given in terms of Risk Phrases and Safety Phrases . Risk Phrases , e . g . R26 , consists of R followed by a number , in this case indicating that the material is "" toxic by inhalation "" and the Safety Phrases e . g . S29 "" do not empty down the drain "" . ( It is not necessary to know what all the Risk or Safety Phrases mean since they are usually quoted alongside their code . ) Hazard information will typically outline the main hazards of the material followed by fire fighting measures , First Aid measures , accidental release measures , handling and storage precautions , how stable is the material , and what protect ion clothing to wear , etc. There may be some description of the physical and chemical properties of the material and also toxicological information , ecological information and advice on disposal . All of this information is supplied and some people deliver it straight into the bin ! How to find an MSDS If you want to have this information e . g . for completing a COSHH assessment but you do n't have the MSDS what can you do ? The simplest thing is to ask the manufacturer for a copy . Some you do n't even have to ask since they publish free compilations of their sheets although this is now happening less . ( The set of BDH Hazard Sheets kept in the Worsley Library is no longer produced ) . The DSA has sets of sheets from Fisons and from Fishers on diskette which are available on request , the University Safety Office has an extensive and more general database and the very large Sigma-Aldrich set exists within the University . Otherwise there are now a large number of FREE sources on the Internet and some are outlined below . Vermont Safety Site has a huge collection MSDS Online - search for a chemical and this site will provide the links to connect to the data . MSDS-SEARCH - aims to be a single source for all Manufacturers' MSDS but not yet up and running . Universities including : - Akron Cornell another huge list Oxford Utah and Chemical Manufacturers : Eastman Kodak BDH - select MSDS on the search options . Fischer - Use the catalogue search to select a specific compound and click on the MSDS logo at the foot of the information sheet . Rhone-Poulenc asks for your Organisation Name but then lets you in . Roche - find the product and follow through . Pointers : a few sites carry lists of links to MSDS sources some of which are too small to include here : University of Kentucky holds the definitive list . Chemfinder is useful . Worksafe Western Australia "" MSDS - like "" information is held at : Chemical Safety Data Sheets from the RSC accessible via BIDS . Chemical Substance Fact Sheets from the EPA or from Open Data Solutions . Environmental Chemical Data and Information Network , ECDIN . International Chemical Safety Cards Laboratory Chemicals Safety Data from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute Sigma for their products . Information on Chemicals with hazardous properties at : Carcinogens : A list of Known Carcinogens and Compounds Reasonably expected to be Carcinogens can be found in the NTP Annual / Biennial report on Carcinogens . A list of compounds described by the UK risk phrase R45 , "" May cause Cancer "" in the Bristol University Disposal of Chemical Waste Code of Practice - University of Bristol only . Cornell University list of ' Select Carcinogens ' which also includes chemicals known to be reproductive toxins . A list of compounds which are assigned a UK Maximum Exposure Limit ( MEL ) at the University of Oxford . ToxFAQ , Hazardous Substance Fact Sheets , from the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry . Stanford Hazardous Materials Index . Cornell University list of ' Acutely Toxic Chemicals ' . Related Information : Biological MSDS from Health Canada covers a variety of micro-organisms . Pesticide Information Profiles at Oregon State . Information on Pharmaceuticals and Drugs on PHARMINFONET . Realise that you must search around for what you want and also that , since many of these sites are in the United States , the MSDS are written with US laws and regulations in mind . You may find some unexpected information . Good Hunting ! Back to Safety Home Page or the School of Chemistry Home Page . Dr. K. MacNeil , DSA . This page was last modified ."	Instruction
1307	Firefox 3.6 is Now Available The much delayed release of Firefox , 3.6 , is finally finalized and available for download . So what 's new ? Here are some highlights of this new release : Personas : Instant themes known as Personas is now integrated into Firefox with no add-ons needed . Simply head to the Personas Gallery and hover over a theme to preview it . Click it to apply it and it becomes your browser skin . Personas can be managed within the themes section of your add-ons window . Unfortunately , there does n't seem to be any Windows 7 integration features in this release . The Aero Peek Tab Previews and Thumbnails introduced in Beta 1 were removed in Beta 2 , however can be enabled by toggling an about : config key . Learn more here .	News
1517	Have you heard about Form-Based Codes - New Zoning Tool to be Utilized with Plan Build Live Cincinnati's great neighborhoods originally were built as pedestrian-oriented , mixed-use communities . Residents could walk to restaurants , groceries , retail and meet their daily needs in their vibrant neighborhood business districts . Originally zoning focused on the quality of the places we designed and built and not solely on specific uses , as current zoning does . A major focus of the Plan Build Live project is the creation of a powerful new zoning tool called a Form - Based Code . Form-Based Codes reinforce strong neighborhoods , business districts , and downtowns by focusing on the physical character of buildings , and the relationship of buildings to each other and to the street . By concentrating on the form , rather than the use , of buildings , form-based codes also address the streets and sidewalks – the ' public living rooms ' of our neighborhoods . Most traditional zoning codes are auto-oriented and produce patches of similar use , forcing long distances between the things we all need to do . Many of Cincinnati's walkable , mixed-use neighborhood business districts would not be able to built today under traditional zoning . Form based codes are a powerful new tool that will permit neighborhoods to reinforce their character and their competitive advantage by once again concentrating on the physical massing of buildings , the relationship of the buildings to the sidewalks and street , and the character of the community . The vision and hope of every neighborhood to be a vibrant place where all residents can live , work and play is made possible through the adoption of a form-based code . As the City wraps up the Urban Design Workshop , which is crucial to creating the Form-Based Code , we 've got lots of information on this site . Check here for blog entries , including video of some of the presentations , and here for the schedule of events . For more information on what a Form-Based Code is and how it works , check our documents section here .	Promotion
460	Did you know that Wessington Cryogenics are able to offer repair / refurbishment facilities which will enable virtually all types of cryogenic storage vessel to be returned to an ' As New ' condition ? These facilities include : - A detailed examination of the vessel to determine the full extent of the repair work required . This includes a helium leak test and a visual check on all valves and safeties by our engineers . A fully equipped workshop which allows us to carry out both external and internal repairs to virtually all types of cryogenic vessels ( excluding aluminium vessels with fibre glass necks ) . A team of engineers experienced in the field of cryogenic vessel manufacture can rebuild even the most badly damaged vessel . Modifications to existing equipment are also available . Highly qualified welders approved , among others , by BEI and TUeV to British , American and German regulations allow for the highest integrity weld repairs to be carried out . Vacuum pumping facilities allow for all vessels to be heated and hard pumped for maximum service life . Helium mass spectrometer leak test to detect even the tiniest of leaks . Experienced fitters can completely rework , rebuild and replace existing pipework , valves and safeties to ensure the vessel performs in a safe and efficient manner . Pressure test facilities which allow us to examine your vessel in accordance with the Pressure Systems Safety Regulations . Wessington can also repair & recertify your ISO Frame tanks .	Promotion
179	"Sixty-first session Third Committee Agenda item 68 Report of the Human Rights Council Andorra , Argentina , Austria , Bangladesh , Belgium , Benin , Bolivia , Brazil , Bulgaria , Burundi , Cameroon , Cape Verde , Chile , Congo , Croatia , Cuba , Cyprus , Czech Republic , Ecuador , Estonia , Finland , France , Gabon , Georgia , Germany , Greece , Guinea-Bissau , Haiti , Honduras , Hungary , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Madagascar , Malawi , Mali , Malta , Mauritius , Mexico , Monaco , Morocco , Netherlands , Nigeria , Norway , Panama , Paraguay , Peru , Poland , Portugal , Republic of Korea , Romania , Slovakia , Slovenia , South Africa , Spain , Switzerland , Uganda , United Republic of Tanzania and Venezuela ( Bolivarian Republic of ) : draft resolution * International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance The General Assembly , Taking note of Human Rights Council resolution 1 / 1 of 29 June 2006 , by which the Council adopted the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance , Hails the Council's adoption of the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance ; 1 Adopts and opens for signature , ratification and accession the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance , the text of which is annexed to the present resolution ; Recommends that the Convention be opened for signature at a signing ceremony in Paris . Annex International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance Preamble The States Parties to this Convention , Considering the obligation of States under the Charter of the United Nations to promote universal respect for , and observance of , human rights and fundamental freedoms , Having regard to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , Recalling the International Covenant on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights , the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the other relevant international instruments in the fields of human rights , humanitarian law and international criminal law , Also recalling the Declaration on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in its resolution 47 / 133 of 18 December 1992 , Aware of the extreme seriousness of enforced disappearance , which constitutes a crime and , in certain circumstances defined in international law , a crime against humanity , Determined to prevent enforced disappearances and to combat impunity for the crime of enforced disappearance , Considering the right of any person not to be subjected to enforced disappearance , the right of victims to justice and to reparation , Affirming the right of any victim to know the truth about the circumstances of an enforced disappearance and the fate of the disappeared person , and the right to freedom to seek , receive and impart information to this end , Have agreed on the following articles : Part I Article 1 No one shall be subjected to enforced disappearance . No exceptional circumstances whatsoever , whether a state of war or a threat of war , internal political instability or any other public emergency , may be invoked as a justification for enforced disappearance . Article 2 For the purposes of this Convention , "" enforced disappearance "" is considered to be the arrest , detention , abduction or any other form of deprivation of liberty by agents of the State or by persons or groups of persons acting with the authorization , support or acquiescence of the State , followed by a refusal to acknowledge the deprivation of liberty or by concealment of the fate or whereabouts of the disappeared person , which places such a person outside the protection of the law . Article 3 Each State Party shall take appropriate measures to investigate acts defined in article 2 committed by persons or groups of persons acting without the authorization , support or acquiescence of the State and to bring those responsible to justice . Article 4 Each State Party shall take the necessary measures to ensure that enforced disappearance constitutes an offence under its criminal law . Article 5 The widespread or systematic practice of enforced disappearance constitutes a crime against humanity as defined in applicable international law and shall attract the consequences provided for under such applicable international law . Article 6 Each State Party shall take the necessary measures to hold criminally responsible at least : ( a ) Any person who commits , orders , solicits or induces the commission of , attempts to commit , is an accomplice to or participates in an enforced disappearance ; ( b ) A superior who : ( i ) Knew , or consciously disregarded information which clearly indicated , that subordinates under his or her effective authority and control were committing or about to commit a crime of enforced disappearance ; ( ii ) Exercised effective responsibility for and control over activities which were concerned with the crime of enforced disappearance ; and ( iii ) Failed to take all necessary and reasonable measures within his or her power to prevent or repress the commission of an enforced disappearance or to submit the matter to the competent authorities for investigation and prosecution ; ( c ) Subparagraph ( b ) above is without prejudice to the higher standards of responsibility applicable under relevant international law to a military commander or to a person effectively acting as a military commander . No order or instruction from any public authority , civilian , military or other , may be invoked to justify an offence of enforced disappearance . Article 7 Each State Party shall make the offence of enforced disappearance punishable by appropriate penalties which take into account its extreme seriousness . Each State Party may establish : ( a ) Mitigating circumstances , in particular for persons who , having been implicated in the commission of an enforced disappearance , effectively contribute to bringing the disappeared person forward alive or make it possible to clarify cases of enforced disappearance or to identify the perpetrators of an enforced disappearance ; ( b ) Without prejudice to other criminal procedures , aggravating circumstances , in particular in the event of the death of the disappeared person or the commission of an enforced disappearance in respect of pregnant women , minors , persons with disabilities or other particularly vulnerable persons . Article 8 Without prejudice to article 5 , A State Party which applies a statute of limitations in respect of enforced disappearance shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the term of limitation for criminal proceedings : ( a ) Is of long duration and is proportionate to the extreme seriousness of this offence ; ( b ) Commences from the moment when the offence of enforced disappearance ceases , taking into account its continuous nature . Each State Party shall guarantee the right of victims of enforced disappearance to an effective remedy during the term of limitation . Article 9 Each State Party shall take the necessary measures to establish its competence to exercise jurisdiction over the offence of enforced disappearance : ( a ) When the offence is committed in any territory under its jurisdiction or on board a ship or aircraft registered in that State ; ( b ) When the alleged offender is one of its nationals ; ( c ) When the disappeared person is one of its nationals and the State Party considers it appropriate . Each State Party shall likewise take such measures as may be necessary to establish its competence to exercise jurisdiction over the offence of enforced disappearance when the alleged offender is present in any territory under its jurisdiction , unless it extradites or surrenders him or her to another State in accordance with its international obligations or surrenders him or her to an international criminal tribunal whose jurisdiction it has recognized . This Convention does not exclude any additional criminal jurisdiction exercised in accordance with national law . Article 10 Upon being satisfied , after an examination of the information available to it , that the circumstances so warrant , any State Party in whose territory a person suspected of having committed an offence of enforced disappearance is present shall take him or her into custody or take such other legal measures as are necessary to ensure his or her presence . The custody and other legal measures shall be as provided for in the law of that State Party but may be maintained only for such time as is necessary to ensure the person's presence at criminal , surrender or extradition proceedings . A State Party which has taken the measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall immediately carry out a preliminary inquiry or investigations to establish the facts . It shall notify the States Parties referred to in article 9 , paragraph 1 , of the measures it has taken in pursuance of paragraph 1 of this article , including detention and the circumstances warranting detention , and of the findings of its preliminary inquiry or its investigations , indicating whether it intends to exercise its jurisdiction . Any person in custody pursuant to paragraph 1 of this article may communicate immediately with the nearest appropriate representative of the State of which he or she is a national , or , if he or she is a stateless person , with the representative of the State where he or she usually resides . Article 11 The State Party in the territory under whose jurisdiction a person alleged to have committed an offence of enforced disappearance is found shall , if it does not extradite that person or surrender him or her to another State in accordance with its international obligations or surrender him or her to an international criminal tribunal whose jurisdiction it has recognized , submit the case to its competent authorities for the purpose of prosecution . These authorities shall take their decision in the same manner as in the case of any ordinary offence of a serious nature under the law of that State Party . In the cases referred to in article 9 , paragraph 2 , the standards of evidence required for prosecution and conviction shall in no way be less stringent than those which apply in the cases referred to in article 9 , paragraph 1 . Any person against whom proceedings are brought in connection with an offence of enforced disappearance shall be guaranteed fair treatment at all stages of the proceedings . Any person tried for an offence of enforced disappearance shall benefit from a fair trial before a competent , independent and impartial court or tribunal established by law . Article 12 Each State Party shall ensure that any individual who alleges that a person has been subjected to enforced disappearance has the right to report the facts to the competent authorities , which shall examine the allegation promptly and impartially and , where necessary , undertake without delay a thorough and impartial investigation . Appropriate steps shall be taken , where necessary , to ensure that the complainant , witnesses , relatives of the disappeared person and their defence counsel , as well as persons participating in the investigation , are protected against all ill-treatment or intimidation as a consequence of the complaint or any evidence given . Where there are reasonable grounds for believing that a person has been subjected to enforced disappearance , the authorities referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall undertake an investigation , even if there has been no formal complaint . Each State Party shall ensure that the authorities referred to in paragraph 1 of this article : ( a ) Have the necessary powers and resources to conduct the investigation effectively , including access to the documentation and other information relevant to their investigation ; ( b ) Have access , if necessary with the prior authorization of a judicial authority , which shall rule promptly on the matter , to any place of detention or any other place where there are reasonable grounds to believe that the disappeared person may be present . Each State Party shall take the necessary measures to prevent and sanction acts that hinder the conduct of an investigation . It shall ensure in particular that persons suspected of having committed an offence of enforced disappearance are not in a position to influence the progress of an investigation by means of pressure or acts of intimidation or reprisal aimed at the complainant , witnesses , relatives of the disappeared person or their defence counsel , or at persons participating in the investigation . Article 13 For the purposes of extradition between States Parties , the offence of enforced disappearance shall not be regarded as a political offence or as an offence connected with a political offence or as an offence inspired by political motives . Accordingly , a request for extradition based on such an offence may not be refused on these grounds alone . The offence of enforced disappearance shall be deemed to be included as an extraditable offence in any extradition treaty existing between States Parties before the entry into force of this Convention . States Parties undertake to include the offence of enforced disappearance as an extraditable offence in any extradition treaty subsequently to be concluded between them . If a State Party which makes extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty receives a request for extradition from another State Party with which it has no extradition treaty , it may consider this Convention as the necessary legal basis for extradition in respect of the offence of enforced disappearance . States Parties which do not make extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty shall recognize the offence of enforced disappearance as an extraditable offence between themselves . Extradition shall , in all cases , be subject to the conditions provided for by the law of the requested State Party or by applicable extradition treaties , including , in particular , conditions relating to the minimum penalty requirement for extradition and the grounds upon which the requested State Party may refuse extradition or make it subject to certain conditions . Nothing in this Convention shall be interpreted as imposing an obligation to extradite if the requested State Party has substantial grounds for believing that the request has been made for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing a person on account of that person's sex , race , religion , nationality , ethnic origin , political opinions or membership of a particular social group , or that compliance with the request would cause harm to that person for any one of these reasons . Article 14 States Parties shall afford one another the greatest measure of mutual legal assistance in connection with criminal proceedings brought in respect of an offence of enforced disappearance , including the supply of all evidence at their disposal that is necessary for the proceedings . Such mutual legal assistance shall be subject to the conditions provided for by the domestic law of the requested State Party or by applicable treaties on mutual legal assistance , including , in particular , the conditions in relation to the grounds upon which the requested State Party may refuse to grant mutual legal assistance or may make it subject to conditions . Article 15 States Parties shall cooperate with each other and shall afford one another the greatest measure of mutual assistance with a view to assisting victims of enforced disappearance , and in searching for , locating and releasing disappeared persons and , in the event of death , in exhuming and identifying them and returning their remains . Article 16 No State Party shall expel , return ( "" refouler "" ) , surrender or extradite a person to another State where there are substantial grounds for believing that he or she would be in danger of being subjected to enforced disappearance . For the purpose of determining whether there are such grounds , the competent authorities shall take into account all relevant considerations , including , where applicable , the existence in the State concerned of a consistent pattern of gross , flagrant or mass violations of human rights or of serious violations of international humanitarian law . Article 17 No one shall be held in secret detention . Without prejudice to other international obligations of the State Party with regard to the deprivation of liberty , each State Party shall , in its legislation : ( a ) Establish the conditions under which orders of deprivation of liberty may be given ; ( b ) Indicate those authorities authorized to order the deprivation of liberty ; ( c ) Guarantee that any person deprived of liberty shall be held solely in officially recognized and supervised places of deprivation of liberty ; ( d ) Guarantee that any person deprived of liberty shall be authorized to communicate with and be visited by his or her family , counsel or any other person of his or her choice , subject only to the conditions established by law , or , if he or she is a foreigner , to communicate with his or her consular authorities , in accordance with applicable international law ; ( e ) Guarantee access by the competent and legally authorized authorities and institutions to the places where persons are deprived of liberty , if necessary with prior authorization from a judicial authority ; ( f ) Guarantee that any person deprived of liberty or , in the case of a suspected enforced disappearance , since the person deprived of liberty is not able to exercise this right , any persons with a legitimate interest , such as relatives of the person deprived of liberty , their representatives or their counsel , shall , in all circumstances , be entitled to take proceedings before a court , in order that the court may decide without delay on the lawfulness of the deprivation of liberty and order the person's release if such deprivation of liberty is not lawful . Each State Party shall assure the compilation and maintenance of one or more up-to-date official registers and / or records of persons deprived of liberty , which shall be made promptly available , upon request , to any judicial or other competent authority or institution authorized for that purpose by the law of the State Party concerned or any relevant international legal instrument to which the State concerned is a party . The information contained therein shall include , as a minimum : ( a ) The identity of the person deprived of liberty ; ( b ) The date , time and place where the person was deprived of liberty and the identity of the authority that deprived the person of liberty ; ( c ) The authority that ordered the deprivation of liberty and the grounds for the deprivation of liberty ; ( d ) The authority responsible for supervising the deprivation of liberty ; ( e ) The place of deprivation of liberty , the date and time of admission to the place of deprivation of liberty and the authority responsible for the place of deprivation of liberty ; ( f ) Elements relating to the state of health of the person deprived of liberty ; ( g ) In the event of death during the deprivation of liberty , the circumstances and cause of death and the destination of the remains ; ( h ) The date and time of release or transfer to another place of detention , the destination and the authority responsible for the transfer . Article 18 Subject to articles 19 and 20 , each State Party shall guarantee to any person with a legitimate interest in this information , such as relatives of the person deprived of liberty , their representatives or their counsel , access to at least the following information : ( a ) The authority that ordered the deprivation of liberty ; ( b ) The date , time and place where the person was deprived of liberty and admitted to the place of deprivation of liberty ; ( c ) The authority responsible for supervising the deprivation of liberty ; ( d ) The whereabouts of the person deprived of liberty , including , in the event of a transfer to another place of deprivation of liberty , the destination and the authority responsible for the transfer ; ( e ) The date , time and place of release ; ( f ) Elements relating to the state of health of the person deprived of liberty ; ( g ) In the event of death during the deprivation of liberty , the circumstances and cause of death and the destination of the remains . Appropriate measures shall be taken , where necessary , to protect the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this article , as well as persons participating in the investigation , from any ill-treatment , intimidation or sanction as a result of the search for information concerning a person deprived of liberty . Article 19 Personal information , including medical and genetic data , which is collected and / or transmitted within the framework of the search for a disappeared person shall not be used or made available for purposes other than the search for the disappeared person . This is without prejudice to the use of such information in criminal proceedings relating to an offence of enforced disappearance or the exercise of the right to obtain reparation . The collection , processing , use and storage of personal information , including medical and genetic data , shall not infringe or have the effect of infringing the human rights , fundamental freedoms or human dignity of an individual . Article 20 Only where a person is under the protection of the law and the deprivation of liberty is subject to judicial control may the right to information referred to in article 18 be restricted , on an exceptional basis , where strictly necessary and where provided for by law , and if the transmission of the information would adversely affect the privacy or safety of the person , hinder a criminal investigation , or for other equivalent reasons in accordance with the law , and in conformity with applicable international law and with the objectives of this Convention . In no case shall there be restrictions on the right to information referred to in article 18 that could constitute conduct defined in article 2 or be in violation of article 17 , paragraph 1 . Without prejudice to consideration of the lawfulness of the deprivation of a person's liberty , States Parties shall guarantee to the persons referred to in article 18 , paragraph 1 , the right to a prompt and effective judicial remedy as a means of obtaining without delay the information referred to in article 18 , paragraph 1 . This right to a remedy may not be suspended or restricted in any circumstances . Article 21 Each State Party shall take the necessary measures to ensure that persons deprived of liberty are released in a manner permitting reliable verification that they have actually been released . Each State Party shall also take the necessary measures to assure the physical integrity of such persons and their ability to exercise fully their rights at the time of release , without prejudice to any obligations to which such persons may be subject under national law . Article 22 Without prejudice to article 6 , each State Party shall take the necessary measures to prevent and impose sanctions for the following conduct : ( a ) Delaying or obstructing the remedies referred to in article 17 , paragraph 2 ( f ) , and article 20 , paragraph 2 ; ( b ) Failure to record the deprivation of liberty of any person , or the recording of any information which the official responsible for the official register knew or should have known to be inaccurate ; ( c ) Refusal to provide information on the deprivation of liberty of a person , or the provision of inaccurate information , even though the legal requirements for providing such information have been met . Article 23 Each State Party shall ensure that the training of law enforcement personnel , civil or military , medical personnel , public officials and other persons who may be involved in the custody or treatment of any person deprived of liberty includes the necessary education and information regarding the relevant provisions of this Convention , in order to : ( a ) Prevent the involvement of such officials in enforced disappearances ; ( b ) Emphasize the importance of prevention and investigations in relation to enforced disappearances ; ( c ) Ensure that the urgent need to resolve cases of enforced disappearance is recognized . Each State Party shall ensure that orders or instructions prescribing , authorizing or encouraging enforced disappearance are prohibited . Each State Party shall guarantee that a person who refuses to obey such an order will not be punished . Each State Party shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this article who have reason to believe that an enforced disappearance has occurred or is planned report the matter to their superiors and , where necessary , to the appropriate authorities or bodies vested with powers of review or remedy . Article 24 For the purposes of this Convention , "" victim "" means the disappeared person and any individual who has suffered harm as the direct result of an enforced disappearance . Each victim has the right to know the truth regarding the circumstances of the enforced disappearance , the progress and results of the investigation and the fate of the disappeared person . Each State Party shall take appropriate measures in this regard . Each State Party shall take all appropriate measures to search for , locate and release disappeared persons and , in the event of death , to locate , respect and return their remains . Each State Party shall ensure in its legal system that the victims of enforced disappearance have the right to obtain reparation and prompt , fair and adequate compensation . The right to obtain reparation referred to in paragraph 4 of this article covers material and moral damages and , where appropriate , other forms of reparation such as : ( a ) Restitution ; ( b ) Rehabilitation ; ( c ) Satisfaction , including restoration of dignity and reputation ; ( d ) Guarantees of non-repetition . Without prejudice to the obligation to continue the investigation until the fate of the disappeared person has been clarified , each State Party shall take the appropriate steps with regard to the legal situation of disappeared persons whose fate has not been clarified and that of their relatives , in fields such as social welfare , financial matters , family law and property rights . Each State Party shall guarantee the right to form and participate freely in organizations and associations concerned with attempting to establish the circumstances of enforced disappearances and the fate of disappeared persons , and to assist victims of enforced disappearance . Article 25 Each State Party shall take the necessary measures to prevent and punish under its criminal law : ( a ) The wrongful removal of children who are subjected to enforced disappearance , children whose father , mother or legal guardian is subjected to enforced disappearance or children born during the captivity of a mother subjected to enforced disappearance ; ( b ) The falsification , concealment or destruction of documents attesting to the true identity of the children referred to in subparagraph ( a ) above . Each State Party shall take the necessary measures to search for and identify the children referred to in paragraph 1 ( a ) of this article and to return them to their families of origin , in accordance with legal procedures and applicable international agreements . States Parties shall assist one another in searching for , identifying and locating the children referred to in paragraph 1 ( a ) of this article . Given the need to protect the best interests of the children referred to in paragraph 1 ( a ) of this article and their right to preserve , or to have re-established , their identity , including their nationality , name and family relations as recognized by law , States Parties which recognize a system of adoption or other form of placement of children shall have legal procedures in place to review the adoption or placement procedure , and , where appropriate , to annul any adoption or placement of children that originated in an enforced disappearance . In all cases , and in particular in all matters relating to this article , the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration , and a child who is capable of forming his or her own views shall have the right to express those views freely , the views of the child being given due weight in accordance with the age and maturity of the child . Part II Article 26 A Committee on Enforced Disappearances ( hereinafter referred to as "" the Committee "" ) shall be established to carry out the functions provided for under this Convention . The Committee shall consist of ten experts of high moral character and recognized competence in the field of human rights , who shall serve in their personal capacity and be independent and impartial . The members of the Committee shall be elected by the States Parties according to equitable geographical distribution . Due account shall be taken of the usefulness of the participation in the work of the Committee of persons having relevant legal experience and of balanced gender representation . The members of the Committee shall be elected by secret ballot from a list of persons nominated by States Parties from among their nationals , at biennial meetings of the States Parties convened by the Secretary General of the United Nations for this purpose . At those meetings , for which two thirds of the States Parties shall constitute a quorum , the persons elected to the Committee shall be those who obtain the largest number of votes and an absolute majority of the votes of the representatives of States Parties present and voting . The initial election shall be held no later than six months after the date of entry into force of this Convention . Four months before the date of each election , the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall address a letter to the States Parties inviting them to submit nominations within three months . The Secretary-General shall prepare a list in alphabetical order of all persons thus nominated , indicating the State Party which nominated each candidate , and shall submit this list to all States Parties . The members of the Committee shall be elected for a term of four years . They shall be eligible for re-election once . However , the term of five of the members elected at the first election shall expire at the end of two years ; immediately after the first election , the names of these five members shall be chosen by lot by the chairman of the meeting referred to in paragraph 2 of this article . If a member of the Committee dies or resigns or for any other reason can no longer perform his or her Committee duties , the State Party which nominated him or her shall , in accordance with the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of this article , appoint another candidate from among its nationals to serve out his or her term , subject to the approval of the majority of the States Parties . Such approval shall be considered to have been obtained unless half or more of the States Parties respond negatively within six weeks of having been informed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the proposed appointment . The Committee shall establish its own rules of procedure . The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall provide the Committee with the necessary means , staff and facilities for the effective performance of its functions . The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall convene the initial meeting of the Committee . The members of the Committee shall be entitled to the facilities , privileges and immunities of experts on mission for the United Nations , as laid down in the relevant sections of the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations . Each State Party shall cooperate with the Committee and assist its members in the fulfilment of their mandate , to the extent of the Committee's functions that the State Party has accepted . Article 27 A Conference of the States Parties will take place at the earliest four years and at the latest six years following the entry into force of this Convention to evaluate the functioning of the Committee and to decide , in accordance with the procedure described in article 44 , paragraph 2 , whether it is appropriate to transfer to another body – without excluding any possibility – the monitoring of this Convention , in accordance with the functions defined in articles 28 to 36 . Article 28 In the framework of the competencies granted by this Convention , the Committee shall cooperate with all relevant organs , offices and specialized agencies and funds of the United Nations , with the treaty bodies instituted by international instruments , with the special procedures of the United Nations and with the relevant regional intergovernmental organizations or bodies , as well as with all relevant State institutions , agencies or offices working towards the protection of all persons against enforced disappearances . As it discharges its mandate , the Committee shall consult other treaty bodies instituted by relevant international human rights instruments , in particular the Human Rights Committee instituted by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights , with a view to ensuring the consistency of their respective observations and recommendations . Article 29 Each State Party shall submit to the Committee , through the Secretary-General of the United Nations , a report on the measures taken to give effect to its obligations under this Convention , within two years after the entry into force of this Convention for the State Party concerned . The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall make this report available to all States Parties . Each report shall be considered by the Committee , which shall issue such comments , observations or recommendations as it may deem appropriate . The comments , observations or recommendations shall be communicated to the State Party concerned , which may respond to them , on its own initiative or at the request of the Committee . The Committee may also request States Parties to provide additional information on the implementation of this Convention . Article 30 A request that a disappeared person should be sought and found may be submitted to the Committee , as a matter of urgency , by relatives of the disappeared person or their legal representatives , their counsel or any person authorized by them , as well as by any other person having a legitimate interest . If the Committee considers that a request for urgent action submitted in pursuance of paragraph 1 of this article : ( a ) Is not manifestly unfounded ; ( b ) Does not constitute an abuse of the right of submission of such requests ; ( c ) Has already been duly presented to the competent bodies of the State Party concerned , such as those authorized to undertake investigations , where such a possibility exists ; ( d ) Is not incompatible with the provisions of this Convention ; and ( e ) The same matter is not being examined under another procedure of international investigation or settlement of the same nature ; it shall request the State Party concerned to provide it with information on the situation of the persons sought , within a time limit set by the Committee . In the light of the information provided by the State Party concerned in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article , the Committee may transmit recommendations to the State Party , including a request that the State Party should take all the necessary measures , including interim measures , to locate and protect the person concerned in accordance with this Convention and to inform the Committee , within a specified period of time , of measures taken , taking into account the urgency of the situation . The Committee shall inform the person submitting the urgent action request of its recommendations and of the information provided to it by the State as it becomes available . The Committee shall continue its efforts to work with the State Party concerned for as long as the fate of the person sought remains unresolved . The person presenting the request shall be kept informed . Article 31 A State Party may at the time of ratification of this Convention or at any time afterwards declare that it recognizes the competence of the Committee to receive and consider communications from or on behalf of individuals subject to its jurisdiction claiming to be victims of a violation by this State Party of provisions of this Convention . The Committee shall not admit any communication concerning a State Party which has not made such a declaration . The Committee shall consider a communication inadmissible where : ( a ) The communication is anonymous ; ( b ) The communication constitutes an abuse of the right of submission of such communications or is incompatible with the provisions of this Convention ; ( c ) The same matter is being examined under another procedure of international investigation or settlement of the same nature ; or where ( d ) All effective available domestic remedies have not been exhausted . This rule shall not apply where the application of the remedies is unreasonably prolonged . If the Committee considers that the communication meets the requirements set out in paragraph 2 of this article , it shall transmit the communication to the State Party concerned , requesting it to provide observations and comments within a time limit set by the Committee . At any time after the receipt of a communication and before a determination on the merits has been reached , the Committee may transmit to the State Party concerned for its urgent consideration a request that the State Party will take such interim measures as may be necessary to avoid possible irreparable damage to the victims of the alleged violation . Where the Committee exercises its discretion , this does not imply a determination on admissibility or on the merits of the communication . The Committee shall hold closed meetings when examining communications under the present article . It shall inform the author of a communication of the responses provided by the State Party concerned . When the Committee decides to finalize the procedure , it shall communicate its views to the State Party and to the author of the communication . Article 32 A State Party to this Convention may at any time declare that it recognizes the competence of the Committee to receive and consider communications in which a State Party claims that another State Party is not fulfilling its obligations under this Convention . The Committee shall not receive communications concerning a State Party which has not made such a declaration , nor communications from a State Party which has not made such a declaration . Article 33 If the Committee receives liable information indicating that a State Party is seriously violating the provisions of this Convention , it may , after consultation with the State Party concerned , request one or more of its members to undertake a visit and report back to it without delay . The Committee shall notify the State Party concerned , in writing , of its intention to organize a visit , indicating the composition of the delegation and the purpose of the visit . The State Party shall answer the Committee within a reasonable time . Upon a substantiated request by the State Party , the Committee may decide to postpone or cancel its visit . If the State Party agrees to the visit , the Committee and the State Party concerned shall work together to define the modalities of the visit and the State Party shall provide the Committee with all the facilities needed for the successful completion of the visit . Following its visit , the Committee shall communicate to the State Party concerned its observations and recommendations . Article 34 If the Committee receives information which appears to it to contain well-founded indications that enforced disappearance is being practised on a widespread or systematic basis in the territory under the jurisdiction of a State Party , it may , after seeking from the State Party concerned all relevant information on the situation , urgently bring the matter to the attention of the General Assembly of the United Nations , through the Secretary-General of the United Nations . Article 35 The Committee shall have competence solely in respect of enforced disappearances which commenced after the entry into force of this Convention . If a State becomes a party to this Convention after its entry into force , the obligations of that State vis-à-vis the Committee shall relate only to enforced disappearances which commenced after the entry into force of this Convention for the State concerned . Article 36 The Committee shall submit an annual report on its activities under this Convention to the States Parties and to the General Assembly of the United Nations . Before an observation on a State Party is published in the annual report , the State Party concerned shall be informed in advance and shall be given reasonable time to answer . This State Party may request the publication of its comments or observations in the report . Part III Article 37 Nothing in this Convention shall affect any provisions which are more conducive to the protection of all persons from enforced disappearance and which may be contained in : ( a ) The law of a State Party ; ( b ) International law in force for that State . Article 38 This Convention is open for signature by all Member States of the United Nations . This Convention is subject to ratification by all Member States of the United Nations . Instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations . This Convention is open to accession by all Member States of the United Nations . Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of accession with the Secretary-General . Article 39 This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date of deposit with the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the twentieth instrument of ratification or accession . For each State ratifying or acceding to this Convention after the deposit of the twentieth instrument of ratification or accession , this Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date of the deposit of that State's instrument of ratification or accession . Article 40 The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall notify all States Members of the United Nations and all States which have signed or acceded to this Convention of the following : ( a ) Signatures , ratifications and accessions under article 38 ; ( b ) The date of entry into force of this Convention under article 39 . Article 41 The provisions of this Convention shall apply to all parts of federal States without any limitations or exceptions . Article 42 Any dispute between two or more States Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention which can not be settled through negotiation or by the procedures expressly provided for in this Convention shall , at the request of one of them , be submitted to arbitration . If within six months from the date of the request for arbitration the Parties are unable to agree on the organization of the arbitration , any one of those Parties may refer the dispute to the International Court of Justice by request in conformity with the Statute of the Court . A State may , at the time of signature or ratification of this Convention or accession thereto , declare that it does not consider itself bound by paragraph 1 of this article . The other States Parties shall not be bound by paragraph 1 of this article with respect to any State Party having made such a declaration . Any State Party having made a declaration in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article may at any time withdraw this declaration by notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations . Article 43 This Convention is without prejudice to the provisions of international humanitarian law , including the obligations of the High Contracting Parties to the four Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 and the two Additional Protocols thereto of 8 June 1977 , or to the opportunity available to any State Party to authorize the International Committee of the Red Cross to visit places of detention in situations not covered by international humanitarian law . Article 44 Any State Party to this Convention may propose an amendment and file it with the Secretary General of the United Nations . The Secretary-General shall thereupon communicate the proposed amendment to the States Parties to this Convention with a request that they indicate whether they favour a conference of States Parties for the purpose of considering and voting upon the proposal . In the event that within four months from the date of such communication at least one third of the States Parties favour such a conference , the Secretary-General shall convene the conference under the auspices of the United Nations . Any amendment adopted by a majority of two thirds of the States Parties present and voting at the conference shall be submitted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to all the States Parties for acceptance . An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article shall enter into force when two thirds of the States Parties to this Convention have accepted it in accordance with their respective constitutional processes . When amendments enter into force , they shall be binding on those States Parties which have accepted them , other States Parties still being bound by the provisions of this Convention and any earlier amendment which they have accepted . Article 45 This Convention , of which the Arabic , Chinese , English , French , Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic , shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations . The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall transmit certified copies of this Convention to all States referred to in article 38 . * Text recommended by the Human Rights Council for adoption by the General Assembly ( see Official Records of the General Assembly , Sixty-first Session , Supplement No. 53 ( A / 61 / 53 ) , part one , chap . Official Records of the General Assembly , Sixty-first Session , Supplement No. 53 ( A / 61 / 53 ) , part one , chap . II . A , resolution 1 / 1 , annex ."	Legal
189	Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women Twenty-seventh session 3-21 June 2002 Item 5 of the provisional agenda * Implementation of article 21 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women Report provided by specialized agencies of the United Nations on the implementation of the Convention in areas falling within the scope of their activities ** The document was submitted late to the conference services without the explanation required under paragraph 8 of General Assembly resolution 53 / 208 B , by which the Assembly decided that , if a report is submitted late , the reason should be included in a footnote to the document . Note by the Secretary-General ** Addendum World Health Organization On behalf of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women , on 17 April 2002 , the Secretariat invited the World Health Organization ( WHO ) to submit to the Committee a report on information provided by States to WHO on the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women , in areas falling within the scope of its activities , which would supplement the information contained in the reports of the States parties to the Convention to be considered at the twenty-seventh session . Other information sought by the Committee refers to activities , programmes and policy decisions undertaken by WHO to promote the implementation of the Convention . The report annexed hereto has been submitted in compliance with the Committee's request . Annex Report of the World Health Organization to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women at its twenty-seventh session Comments on the health of women in States parties presenting initial reports : the Congo , Saint Kitts and Nevis , and Suriname Introduction Women's health is an issue given some prominence both directly and indirectly in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the potential negative effects of discrimination on the health of women is a theme that appears in various places . Article 12 explicitly sets forth the obligation of States Parties to take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women in the field of health care in order to ensure , on a basis of equality of men and women , access to health-care services , including those related to family planning . Other articles strengthen and broaden this article , calling for the elimination of discrimination against women in a number of health-related fields , for example , articles 10 ( education ) , 14 ( rural women ) and 16 ( marriage and family relations ) . The General Recommendations , likewise , have expanded and specified other issues which the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women ( CEDAW ) also believes it is important to monitor for discrimination and which are related to health , for example , Nos. 12 ( 1989 ) and 19 ( 1992 ) on violence against women , No. 14 ( 1990 ) on female circumcision , No. 15 ( 1990 ) on avoidance of discrimination against women in national strategies for the prevention and control of AIDS , No. 18 ( 1991 ) on disabled women and No. 24 ( 1999 ) , the Committee's most extensive comments on women's health . General Recommendation No. 24 , completely related to health , is of particular importance . This recommendation places the health of women in a comprehensive framework and takes a lifespan approach , recognizing the importance of the age-specific needs of women at various points throughout life . The World Health Organization ( WHO ) is pleased to submit this report with information which may complement the reports of States parties and draw attention to some issues related to women's health that may merit the special attention of the Committee . Information for each country is grouped under various headings – basic data , children , adolescents , women , older women and conclusions – selecting , in each case , information particularly relevant to the health of women of all ages . It is to be regretted that data on a number of issues important to the health of women , particularly poor women , tends to be inadequate or absent altogether from much of the standard published information about women in many countries . For example , • While WHO and a number of other United Nations agencies are deeply concerned about the issues of trafficking in women and children and there are suggestions it may be an important issue to some of the countries reporting to CEDAW , there is little systematic country-specific information available about either the volume or the threats to the health and well-being of women who are victims of trafficking ; • Two other important issues which are underrepresented are the overall incidence , impact and male-female distribution of child labour and occupation-related health problems of women in both formal and informal work settings ; • Data is scarce on women with disabilities and other women who live or work under circumstances that place them at particularly high risk of disease or disability , such as , inter alia , migrant workers , refugees and other socially displaced women , and sex workers . These are issues which could usefully be raised in connection with every country . Finally , it would be extremely useful if the Committee should wish to emphasize the importance of women's health beyond the long-standing concern with reproductive health . For example , many countries have little systematic disaggregated data available on women's health issues such as : • Communicable diseases , including malaria and tuberculosis ; • Cardiovascular diseases ( increasingly important as killers of women ) ; • Mental health problems ; • Lifestyle-related disability and death including substance abuse ( smoking and alcohol ) ; • Osteo-arthritis , auto-immune diseases and others which are particularly important as contributors to disability and death of older women . WHO , as a member of the United Nations system , takes the CEDAW reporting process seriously and considers it to be an important opportunity to strengthen work related to women's health . With a view to strengthening this work , the Department of Gender and Women's Health of WHO is preparing a publication intended to help staff working with counterpart Governments in the preparation of the health aspects of the country report to the Committee . The document has been developed with input from all WHO regional offices and technical departments and in collaboration with Rights and Humanity . It is hoped the members of CEDAW will also provide input to the draft during the twenty-seventh session . The Congo General The Congo ( Brazzaville ) has a total population of 3 million people1 and a population growth rate of 3.1 per cent . 2 The population is almost equally divided between women and men , with the women making up 51 per cent of the total . Life expectancy at birth is comparatively low . However , as in many other countries , women have longer life expectancy ( 53 years ) than men ( only 50 years ) . 3 The majority of the people of the Congo live in urban areas ( an estimated 65.4 per cent in 2000 ) . 4 The urban population growth rate for 2000-2005 was estimated to be 3.96 per cent per year , slightly lower than the regional ( Middle Africa ) figure of 4.40 per cent per year for the same period . 5 According to World Bank figures , the Congo falls in the low income category . 6 In 1999 , the gross national product per capita was US $ 670.7 Total expenditure on health in 1998 was estimated to be 3 per cent of the gross domestic product , slightly higher than in 1997.8 The overall situation of the Congo is challenging in terms of health and all aspects of human development . This fact was commented upon in some detail in the concluding observations of the Committee on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights . 9 Civil war led to massive population displacement as well as the disruption of the national economy and the production and marketing of food . This had a profound , negative impact on the situation of daily life . Health and health systems , likewise , have been affected . Children Nearly half of the population of the Congo ( 46 . 3 per cent ) is under 15 years of age . 10 Almost one quarter ( 23 per cent ) are adolescents between the ages of 10 and 19.11 The infant mortality rate ( probability of an infant dying before 1 year of age ) is 87.2 per 1,000 live births for girls and 100 for boys . 12 The child mortality rate ( probability of a child dying before reaching his or her fifth birthday ) is estimated to be 122 for girls and 134 for boys . 13 For children who survive , problems of health and nutrition continue and are serious . Malnutrition runs high , immunization coverage is low and the impact of AIDS is increasing . The proportion of children below 5 years of age suffering from wasting is about the same as the regional average of 10 per cent . 14 However , 45 per cent suffer from moderate and severe stunting , 8 points higher than the regional levels and 13 points higher than the world levels . 15 Immunization levels reach only 50 per cent or lower . Unfortunately , neither nutrition nor immunization figures offer data disaggregated by sex . Table 1 Child immunization rates in the Congo , 1995 and 200016 HIV / AIDS is having a devastating impact both directly and indirectly on the children of the Congo . At the end of 1999 , 4,000 children below 15 years of age were living with HIV and 35,103 had been orphaned by the epidemic , losing either their mother or both parents to AIDS . 17 One must assume that the numbers have increased significantly since then . Comment These data have important implications for national policy as well as for the design and development of public services , particularly in fields such as education and health . With little disaggregated data available it is difficult to know whether there are problems of particular seriousness for girls as contrasted with boys . The Committee may therefore wish to emphasize to the representatives of the Congo the importance of ensuring equity and equality in the promotion of child health and the necessary infrastructure . The impact of stunting , now affecting 45 per cent of the children under 5 , is lifelong and can be irreversible . Similarly , the low immunization levels mean that the majority of Congolese children are exposed to avoidable and , in some cases , fatal disease and disability . The cost of these low immunization rates is high for both the individual and the nation in premature death and loss of dignity and productivity through lifelong disability . In view of this fact , any discussion of health should emphasize the urgency of appropriate management of health and nutrition in the early years of a child's life , both male and female . Adolescents In the field of health , early pregnancy and HIV / AIDS are the two most conspicuous issues about which there is solid data indicating the need for attention and action . During the period 1995-2000 , there were 141 births per 1,000 females from 15 to19 years of age , 18 about the same as the regional figures ( 143 per 1,000 ) 19 but considerably higher than desirable in terms of the health and development of both the mothers and the children . Figures are not available on adolescents with HIV , but it is noteworthy that in the 15 to 24 age group , an estimated 6.5 per cent of girls / women are HIV positive , while only 3.2 per cent of boys / men are so . 20 The data on teen pregnancy , HIV infection and disparity in rates of infection between boys and girls all demonstrate the urgency of action to improve the availability of and access to appropriate health information and services , particularly addressing the reproductive health needs of adolescent girls . Bearing in mind that the gross secondary school enrolment ratio of girls is only 45 per cent , 21 such action would need to be focused on mapping the activity of adolescent girls to determine where and how best to reach them and help them to be empowered to take appropriate measures . The issue of the impact of civil war and its effect on many aspects of life has been highlighted in discussions of the Committee on Social , Economic and Cultural Rights . Related to this , an additional issue relevant to the health of adolescent girls in the Congo is the question of their involvement in past or present military activity as combatants or part of the support system for combatants . Unfortunately , there is little relevant hard data available . Comment Threats to the health of adolescent girls are many , but among the most serious are those related to sexual and reproductive health and behaviour . Data related to teen pregnancy and HIV infection suggests that gender-prescribed roles place girls at disproportionate risk of pregnancy and ill health and leave them little latitude to protect themselves . In this connection and in line with paragraph 18 of General Recommendation No. 24,22 the Committee may wish to pursue discussion with the representatives of the Congo , focusing on availability of gender and age-specific reproductive health information and services . Activity to promote the evolution and acceptance of more equitable and balanced relations between the sexes could contribute to the effectiveness of such programmes . In line with the stipulations of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the healthy development of girls , all involvement of girls in military activity should be firmly discouraged . The Committee may therefore wish to explore the availability of programmes of rehabilitation and efforts to prevent the involvement of girls in military or quasi-military activity which may be damaging to their mental or physical health and development . Women Women share with the whole community the burdens resulting from life under conditions of poverty , insecurity , civil war and social disruption . Women are , in fact , disproportionately affected by all these conditions , which place their mental and physical health at great risk . Reports of both the Human Rights Commission and the Committee on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights have called attention to widespread problems of domestic violence , women's victimization by armed men , serious disruptions of food production and the paucity of health services in both urban and rural areas . All of these must be assumed to contribute to the generally high fertility rates ( 6 . 3 for the Congo in 200023 as compared with a global level of 2.68 ) 24 and low levels of health among women . However , specific data is seriously limited . Added to this already difficult situation , HIV / AIDS is moving rapidly through the population . At the end of 1999 , it was estimated that 6.43 per cent of the population was infected , 45,000 women and 37,000 men . 25 Women at risk of special health problems are those among the population of concern ( refugees , asylum-seekers and returned refugees ) . As of the end of 1999 , they totalled more than 63,000 ( 53 . 8 per cent of the total population of concern ) . 26 Comment Serious attention is needed to find ways progressively to address the special health risks , needs and vulnerabilities of women in the Congo , both in the general population and in refugee and other temporary living situations . Wherever they are located , the women are entitled to reasonable access to basic health information and services and adequate protection to ensure preservation of their dignity and their physical integrity . The Committee may , therefore wish to enquire about both immediate and longer-term plans to carry out programmes and build community-based infrastructure and the necessary support systems to ensure that the women of the Congo have access to increasingly effective health services in accordance with standards set forth in the General Recommendation on health . Given the extreme hardships that much of the population has undergone in recent years , it would be important to ensure inclusion of the views of the women themselves in the design , priority-setting and development of health services . Saint Kitts and Nevis Statistics on Saint Kitts and Nevis are not easy to come by and the country report had not yet been posted on the Internet at the time the present report was written . Because of this , the following analysis is limited in detail and only a few issues are raised for the consideration of the Committee . General Saint Kitts and Nevis has a total population of 38,000 people27 and , during the decade 1990-2000 , had a negative population growth rate ( - 0 . 8 ) . 28 Sixty-six per cent of the people live in rural areas . 29 Life expectancy at birth is 72 years for women and 66.1 years for men . 30 The proportion of urban population to total population ( 34 . 1 per cent ) 31 is considerably lower in Saint Kitts and Nevis than in the rest of the Caribbean ( 63 per cent ) . 32 According to the World Bank , Saint Kitts and Nevis falls in the upper middle income category with an annual GNP per capita of $ 6 , 420 . 33 Children and adolescents Figures on both infant and child mortality reflect the biological advantage of girls over boys . The infant mortality rate is 17 for girls and 23 for boys ; 34 the child mortality rate is 22 for girls and 25 for boys . 35 Although , unfortunately , the data is not disaggregated for boys and girls , immunization rates are good : 99 to 100 per cent of the children are fully immunized by one year of age . 36 However , notwithstanding the relatively good economic circumstances of the country , nutritional levels , at least during the five-year period 1995-2000 , were not good in either absolute or relative terms ; they ran the same or higher than world levels and markedly higher than regional levels . Table 2 Prevalence of child malnutrition in Saint Kitts and Nevis ( Percentage of children under five years of age ) 37 Such high malnutrition levels must be a matter of concern . Comment The Committee may wish to encourage the State party to investigate the causes of malnutrition , giving particular attention to establishing if and what kind of differences there may be in the nutritional status of boys and girls and whether there are any discriminatory feeding patterns which negatively influence a girl's chances of being well nourished . Women Little data on specific health conditions of women in Saint Kitts and Nevis are generally published . There are , however , data on maternal mortality indicating the 1998 rate was 130 per 100,000 live births . 38 Comment In global terms , the maternal mortality rate is comparatively high . The Committee may therefore wish to enquire what factors led to this rate and the State party may be encouraged to take action to improve available services and information , including through community-based health services , with a view to improving this situation for women . The Committee may also wish to call attention to the special needs of older women and those with disabilities . Suriname General The population of Suriname totals 417,000 people , 39 almost equally divided between men and women ( women = 50.36 per cent ) . The annual population growth rate is 0.4 per cent . 40 Thirty-one per cent of the population is below the age of 15 years ( 127 , 200 people ) . 41 Nearly one quarter of the population ( 23 per cent ) is made up of adolescents from 10 to 19 years of age . 42 There is some difference in life expectancy at birth between women and men , with women expecting longer lives ( 73 . 5 years ) than men ( 68 years ) . 43 Nearly three quarters of the people of Suriname live in urban areas ( 74 . 2 per cent ) . 44 According to World Bank classifications , Suriname fell in the lower middle income group of nations in 2000.45 Although there is data in the public domain about health in Suriname , including information specifically about women's health , much of it refers to studies in a particular institution or locality . Much of it was also found to be six or more years old . For these reasons , it is hard to draw informed , overarching conclusions about the status , trends and challenges facing the people of Suriname in the field of women's health . These notes attempt to suggest areas of interest or concern but , of necessity , are limited in scope . Children and adolescents As is true in most of the world , infant mortality rates , the proportion of children who die before they reach the age of one , are different between girls and boys , with the situation being better for girls . The rate for girls is 19 per thousand live births ; for boys , it is 27 per thousand live births . 46 This is also the case for child mortality rates ( the proportion of children who die before reaching the age of 5 per thousand live births ) . The rate was 27 for girls and 29 for boys , 47 an improvement over 1997 when they were considerably higher ( respectively , 39 and boys 51 ) . 48 Unfortunately , good , comprehensive , disaggregated data on child nutrition seemed unavailable for Suriname . Data on education shows equity between girls and boys , with girls making up 49.5 per cent of the primary school students ( equal to their percentage of that age population ) . 49 General concerns about children have been well covered in the Suriname report to the Committee on the Rights of the Child and in the concluding observations of the Committee . 50 Health-related issues of particular concern , which are rooted in discrimination , are violence and sexual exploitation of girls , beginning with young children and continuing into adolescence . While some variation exists among different ethnic communities , there is no question that HIV / AIDS is a serious problem that has an impact on children and older adolescents . The female-male distribution of HIV , particularly among adolescents and young adults , highlights the difficulty girls have protecting themselves . It is estimated ( 2001 ) that among the population from 15 to 24 years of age , 0.79 per cent of boys are HIV positive , while the corresponding figure for girls is 1.33 per cent , nearly twice that of boys . 51 At the end of 1999 , there were also 110 children below 15 years of age living with AIDS ( sex not reported ) . 52 Furthermore , 352 children had been orphaned by AIDS . 53 Although recent figures were hard to come by , it is likely that smoking is a serious and growing problem among girls . Already in 1987-1988 , smoking prevalence among young people from 10 to 19 years of age was estimated to be 12 per cent for girls and 36 per cent for boys . 54 If Suriname has followed patterns common elsewhere , the advertising industry will have actively targeted young people and those figures are likely to have grown significantly . Knowing that the process of addiction grows more quickly among young girls than boys , one must assume many of these girls will be lifelong smokers , with negative health effects accumulating throughout later years of life and , should the girls become pregnant , smoking will have a negative impact on the health of the baby they will bear . Comment Three issues of particular importance which would benefit from the Committee's attention are domestic violence , with particular attention to abuse , including sexual abuse of girls ; information , care and service related to HIV among adolescents , particularly adolescent girls ; and smoking . Activities are needed to encourage , particularly among younger adolescents , empowerment of girls , more sexual responsibility among boys and more equitable and mutually respectful relations . Such activity would have a positive impact in both the short and long run , including a positive intergenerational impact , as children are less likely to be raised in families affected by violence or the HIV pandemic . Additionally , the Committee may wish to encourage the State party to attempt regular nationwide updates of disaggregated data on issues such as nutrition , smoking and domestic violence as the basis for gender and situation analysis leading to interventions to promote and protect the health of young people . Women Access to health-care services among minority and poor women is limited , a negative factor related to women's health . Problems of access appear to stem from poverty , uneven distribution of service ( urban and interior areas ) and population . Gender-based violence is a serious problem , one which has been noted for at least the last decade , but progress in addressing it has been limited . A study carried out in 1990 found that 95 per cent of all sexual offences registered by the Emergency Department of the Academic Hospital were women : 20 per cent of the victims were below 10 years of age . 55 While the Government has taken modest steps to improve the official response to domestic violence , including some training for police , the availability of a social worker in some places , the coverage has been limited and girls and women of all ages continue to be subject to abuse . The women's movement has also been active and by the late 1990s some progress was reported . A police study ( 1996-1997 ) indicated some decline in violence , 56 although women were still victims in 76.7 per cent of the incidents of domestic violence reported in 1997.57 Debate , nonetheless , continues about the appropriateness of public policy entering an area of private relations such as domestic violence . This may slow official action in this field and permit continuing violence against women . HIV is an increasingly serious problem in Suriname . Problems of poverty and changes in some norms and values have contributed to an increase in prostitution . 58 Moreover , men's continuing decisive power over the use of condoms has meant that activity to control and treat sexually transmitted infections , including HIV , have had limited benefits for women . 59 In the late 1990s , the Dermatological Service indicated 1 in 5 street sex workers tested to be HIV positive . 60 The overall infection rate of adults was 1.26 per cent in 1999,61 considerably higher than the regional ( Latin America ) rate of 0.5 per cent in 2001.62 Exhibiting a pattern common to many parts of the world , among younger people from 18 to 25 years of age , the majority of those who are HIV positive are female , while among those over 25 years of age , more males are infected . 63 By the end of 1999 , women made up 33 per cent of all people aged 15 to 49 living with AIDS . 64 The maternal mortality ratio for Suriname was estimated to be 230 per 100,000 live births for the early 1990s , well below the global average of 400 per 100,000 live births . 65 A preliminary WHO analysis for 2000 suggests it is now much lower , around 112 per 100,000 live births . Nonetheless , given the fact that 98 per cent of deliveries are attended by trained health personnel , 66 further investigation would be in order as to the distribution and causes of maternal mortality as well as options for affordable , acceptable interventions to reduce that figure . Comment The multi-ethnic make-up of Suriname and unequal distribution of population complicate the implementation of public policy and the achievement of equity among women with regard to access and utilization of public services . Inequities in power relations between men and women also make maintenance of good health difficult for some women who are in relationships which place their sexual , mental and physical health at risk and leave them little recourse . The Committee may wish , therefore , to encourage the State party to give particular attention to the development and implementation of stronger public policy in these areas as well as to issues of equity in the accessibility and utilization of public services . Data and reports on HIV infections and domestic violence indicate continuing , unresolved challenges related to gender relations . It is regrettable that no recent data has been found on smoking among adolescents or adults . This has long-term health impacts and advertisers often capitalize on and reinforce negative gender stereotypes to promote their product . The Committee may therefore wish to encourage the State party to investigate and take action to monitor and control rigorously access to and use of smoking material . Nutrition and mental health are two other fields of considerable impact related to women's health and well-being on which little current data was found . Older women Women over 60 years of age make up 9 per cent of the female population of Suriname . 67 As elsewhere in the world , they outnumber men of the same age by a considerable number – there are 127 women for every 100 men 60 years of age or older and there are 132 women for every 100 men 80 years of age or older . 68 While most people have access to some form of health insurance , the elderly and the poor have suffered most from the country's economic problems , which have eroded the availability of services . Suriname is a country which has experienced a considerable outflow of population , especially those persons of productive age , and benefits from remittances and , sometimes , medicines sent home by family members employed abroad . Older women who do not have such networks , particularly those suffering from chronic diseases who need regular medical care or treatment , are particularly disadvantaged . 69 Comment The State party is to be congratulated on its efforts to have insurance coverage for its people . However , the Committee may wish to encourage special efforts in times of hardship to identify people , particularly older women and the poor , who may need priority support and attention .	Legal
1092	Normalizing Flows on Riemannian Manifolds arXiv : 1611 . 02304v1 [ stat . ML ] 7 Nov 2016 Mevlana C. Gemici Google DeepMind mevlana@google.com Danilo J. Rezende Google DeepMind danilor@google.com Shakir Mohamed Google DeepMind shakir@google.com Abstract We consider the problem of density estimation on Riemannian manifolds . Density estimation on manifolds has many applications in fluid-mechanics , optics and plasma physics and it appears often when dealing with angular variables ( such as used in protein folding , robot limbs , gene-expression ) and in general directional statistics . In spite of the multitude of algorithms available for density estimation in the Euclidean spaces Rn that scale to large n ( e.g. normalizing flows , kernel methods and variational approximations ) , most of these methods are not immediately suitable for density estimation in more general Riemannian manifolds . We revisit techniques related to homeomorphisms from differential geometry for projecting densities to sub-manifolds and use it to generalize the idea of normalizing flows to more general Riemannian manifolds . The resulting algorithm is scalable , simple to implement and suitable for use with automatic differentiation . We demonstrate concrete examples of this method on the n-sphere Sn . In recent years , there has been much interest in applying variational inference techniques to learning large scale probabilistic models in various domains , such as images and text [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 ] . One of the main issues in variational inference is finding the best approximation to an intractable posterior distribution of interest by searching through a class of known probability distributions . The class of approximations used is often limited , e.g. , mean-field approximations , implying that no solution is ever able to resemble the true posterior distribution . This is a widely raised objection to variational methods , in that unlike MCMC , the true posterior distribution may not be recovered even in the asymptotic regime . To address this problem , recent work on Normalizing Flows [ 7 ] , Inverse Autoregressive Flows [ 8 ] , and others [ 9 , 10 ] ( referred collectively as normalizing flows ) , focused on developing scalable methods of constructing arbitrarily complex and flexible approximate posteriors from simple distributions using transformations parameterized by neural networks , which gives these models universal approximation capability in the asymptotic regime . In all of these works , the distributions of interest are restricted to be defined over high dimensional Euclidean spaces . There are many other distributions defined over special homeomorphisms of Euclidean spaces that are of interest in statistics , such as Beta and Dirichlet ( n-Simplex ) ; Norm-Truncated Gaussian ( n-Ball ) ; Wrapped Cauchy and Von-Misses Fisher ( n-Sphere ) , which find little applicability in variational inference with large scale probabilistic models due to the limitations related to density complexity and gradient computation [ 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 ] . Many such distributions are unimodal and generating complicated distributions from them would require creating mixture densities or using auxiliary random variables . Mixture methods require further knowledge or tuning , e.g. number of mixture components necessary , and a heavy computational burden on the gradient computation in general , e.g. with quantile functions [ 15 ] . Further , mode complexity increases only linearly with mixtures as opposed to exponential increase with normalizing flows . Conditioning on auxiliary variables [ 16 ] on the other hand constrains the use of the created distribution , due to the need for integrating out the auxiliary factors in certain scenarios . In all of these methods , computation of low-variance gradients is difficult due to the fact that simulation of random variables can not be in general reparameterized ( e.g. rejection sampling [ 17 ] ) . In this work , we present methods that generalizes previous work on improving variational inference in Rn using normalizing flows to Riemannian manifolds of interest such as spheres Sn , tori Tn and their product topologies with Rn , like infinite cylinders . Figure 1 : Left : Construction of a complex density on Sn by first projecting the manifold to Rn , transforming the density and projecting it back to Sn . Right : Illustration of transformed ( S2 → R2 ) densities corresponding to an uniform density on the sphere . Blue : empirical density ( obtained by Monte Carlo ) ; Red : Analytical density from equation ( 4 ) ; Green : Density computed ignoring the intrinsic dimensionality of Sn . These special manifolds M ⊂ Rm are homeomorphic to the Euclidean space Rn where n corresponds to the dimensionality of the tangent space of M at each point . A homeomorphism is a continuous function between topological spaces with a continuous inverse ( bijective and bicontinuous ) . It maps point in one space to the other in a unique and continuous manner . An example manifold is the unit 2-sphere , the surface of a unit ball , which is embedded in R3 and homeomorphic to R2 ( see Figure 1 ) . In normalizing flows , the main result of differential geometry that is used for computing the density updates is given by , d ~ x = | det Jφ | d ~ u and represents the relationship between differentials ( infinitesimal volumes ) between two equidimensional Euclidean spaces using the Jacobian of the function φ : Rn → Rn that transforms one space to the other . This result only applies to transforms that preserve the dimensionality . However , transforms that map an embedded manifold to its intrinsic Euclidean space , do not preserve the dimensionality of the points and the result above become obsolete . Jacobian of such transforms φ : Rn → Rm with m > n are rectangular and an infinitesimal cube on Rn maps to an infinitesimal parallelepiped on the manifold . The relation between these √ volumes is given by d ~ x = det G d ~ u , where G = JφT Jφ is the metric induced by the embedding φ on the tangent space Tx M , [ 18 , 19 , 20 ] . The correct formula for computing the density over M now becomes : Z Z ( f ◦ φ ) ( ~ u ) f ( ~ x ) d ~ x = M ⊂ Rm √ Z ( f ◦ φ ) ( ~ u ) det G d ~ u = Rn Rn q det JφT Jφ d ~ u ( 1 ) The density update going from the manifold to the Euclidian space , ~ x ∈ Sn → ~ u ∈ Rn , is then given by : q q p ( ~ u ) = ( f ◦ φ ) ( ~ u ) det JφT Jφ ( ~ u ) = f ( ~ x ) det JφT Jφ ( φ − 1 ( ~ x )) ( 2 ) As an application of this method on the n-sphere Sn , we introduce Inverse Stereographic Transform and define it as : φ ( u ) : Rn → Sn ⊂ Rn + 1 , 2u / ( uT u + 1 ) ~ x = φ ( ~ u ) = ( 3 ) 1 − 2 / ( uT u + 1 ) which maps Rn to Sn in a bijective and bicontinuous manner . The determinant of the metric G ( x ) associated with this transformation is given by : 2n 2 T ( 4 ) det G = det Jφ ( x ) Jφ ( x ) = xT x + 1 Using these formulae , on the left side of Figure 1 , we map a uniform density on S2 to R2 , enrich this density , using e.g. normalizing flows , and then map it back onto S2 to obtain a multi-modal ( or arbitrarily complex ) density on the original sphere . On qthe right side of Figure 1 , we show that the density update based on the Riemannian metric , i.e. det JφT Jφ ( red ) , is correct and closely follows the kernel density estimate based on 500k samples ( blue ) . We also show that using the generic volume transformation formulation for dimensionality preserving transforms , i.e. | det Jφ | ( green ) , leads to an erroneous density and do not resemble the empirical distributions of samples after the transformation . 2 References [ 1 ] D. J. Rezende , S. Mohamed , and D. Wierstra . Stochastic backpropagation and approximate inference in deep generative models . In ICML , 2014 . [ 2 ] D. P. Kingma and M. Welling . Auto-encoding variational Bayes . In ICLR , 2014 . [ 3 ] Karol Gregor , Ivo Danihelka , Alex Graves , Danilo Jimenez Rezende , and Daan Wierstra . Draw : A recurrent neural network for image generation . In ICML , 2015 . [ 4 ] SM Eslami , Nicolas Heess , Theophane Weber , Yuval Tassa , Koray Kavukcuoglu , and Geoffrey E Hinton . Attend , infer , repeat : Fast scene understanding with generative models . arXiv preprint arXiv : 1603 . 08575 , 2016 . [ 5 ] Danilo Jimenez Rezende , Shakir Mohamed , Ivo Danihelka , Karol Gregor , and Daan Wierstra . One-shot generalization in deep generative models . In ICML , 2016 . [ 6 ] Matthew D. Hoffman , David M. Blei , Chong Wang , and John Paisley . Stochastic variational inference . Journal of Machine Learning Research , 14 : 1303 – 1347 , 2013 . [ 7 ] Danilo Jimenez Rezende and Shakir Mohamed . Variational inference with normalizing flows . arXiv preprint arXiv : 1505 . 05770 , 2015 . [ 8 ] Diederik P. Kingma , Tim Salimans , and Max Welling . Improving variational inference with inverse autoregressive flow . CoRR , abs / 1606 . 04934 , 2016 . [ 9 ] Laurent Dinh , Jascha Sohl-Dickstein , and Samy Bengio . Density estimation using real nvp . 2016 . [ 10 ] Tim Salimans , Diederik P. Kingma , and Max Welling . Markov chain monte carlo and variational inference : Bridging the gap . In Francis R. Bach and David M. Blei , editors , ICML , volume 37 of JMLR Workshop and Conference Proceedings , pages 1218 – 1226 . JMLR.org , 2015 . [ 11 ] Arindam Banerjee , Inderjit S. Dhillon , Joydeep Ghosh , and Suvrit Sra . Clustering on the unit hypersphere using von mises-fisher distributions . J. Mach . Learn . Res . , 6 : 1345 – 1382 , December 2005 . [ 12 ] Siddharth Gopal and Yiming Yang . Von mises-fisher clustering models . In Tony Jebara and Eric P. Xing , editors , Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Machine Learning ( ICML-14 ) , pages 154 – 162 . JMLR Workshop and Conference Proceedings , 2014 . [ 13 ] Marco Fraccaro , Ulrich Paquet , and Ole Winther . Indexable probabilistic matrix factorization for maximum inner product search . In Proceedings of the Thirtieth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , February 12-17 , 2016 , Phoenix , Arizona , USA . , pages 1554 – 1560 , 2016 . [ 14 ] Arindam Banerjee , Inderjit Dhillon , Joydeep Ghosh , and Suvrit Sra . Generative model-based clustering of directional data . In Proceedings of the Ninth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , KDD ' 03 , pages 19 – 28 , New York , NY , USA , 2003 . ACM . [ 15 ] Alex Graves . Stochastic backpropagation through mixture density distributions . CoRR , abs / 1607 . 05690 , 2016 . [ 16 ] Lars Maaloe , Casper Kaae Sonderby , Soren Kaae Sonderby , and Ole Winther . Auxiliary deep generative models . CoRR , abs / 1602 . 05473 , 2016 . [ 17 ] Scott W. Linderman David M. Blei Christian A. Naesseth , Francisco J. R. Ruiz . Rejection sampling variational inference . 2016 . [ 18 ] Adi Ben-Israel . The change-of-variables formula using matrix volume . SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications , 21 ( 1 ) : 300 – 312 , 1999 . [ 19 ] Adi Ben-Israel . An application of the matrix volume in probability . Linear Algebra and its Applications , 321 ( 1 ) : 9 – 25 , 2000 . [ 20 ] Marcel Berger and Bernard Gostiaux . Differential Geometry : Manifolds , Curves , and Surfaces : Manifolds , Curves , and Surfaces , volume 115 . Springer Science & Business Media , 2012 . 3	Information/Explanation
1581	"Senior agricultural sector authorities visited three sustainable agriculture farms in Costa Rica ; will attempt to promote the application of such practices in their country ACCORDING TO DAVID ESTWICK , Minister of Agriculture , Food , Fisheries , Industry and Small Business Development of Barbados , finding a way to ensure that cooperation goes beyond regional fora and actually reaches their framers , and supporting the modernization of agricultural sector institutions , are two of the most important objectives of the relationship between IICA and Barbados . On his visit to Headquarters , Estwick was accompanied by Deputy Minister Ralph Farnum . The visit was organized by IICA's Hemispheric Center for Leadership in Agriculture , under its Forum for Leaders in Agriculture program . He is the fourteenth minister or secretary of agriculture to participate in these official visits , said Hernan Chiriboga , Coordinator of the Center . During his meeting with the managers , Minister Estwick stated it was necessary to "" change the reality "" in some Caribbean states , which are in need of technological tools that will ensure that innovation reaches farmers and contribute to making them more competitive . According to James French , Director of Technical Cooperation , the IICA 2012-2014 Medium-term Plan calls for strengthening the technical cooperation provided in the Caribbean , since it is clear that global situations , such a climate change and the need to gain a foothold in external markets , make it necessary for agriculture to become more competitive . For his part , the Director of Management and Regional Integration , Victor del Ángel , explained to Minister Estwick that the Institute only implements actions in its 34 Member States with the approval of the corresponding minister of agriculture . Practical examples Eighteen years ago , this small this small-scale agribusiness switched from traditional to more sustainable agricultural practices . On some six hectares of land , cattle , goats , hogs and poultry are raised and vegetables grown . Its food products , organic fertilizer , energy from methane gas , and other products for sale make the farm almost self-sufficient . To demonstrate the sustainable methods it applies and to earn additional income , La Esperanza also engages in agro-eco-tourism . "" I am taking a lot of ideas back with me to Barbados , where many farmers work plots approximately this size , using chemical fertilizers , "" said Estwick . The minister and deputy minister were also able to observe greenhouse techniques when they visited the Agricultores Cartagineses CyC Company , where tomato plants are protected from rain , wind and ultraviolet rays with low-cost reusable materials . At the Almácigos San Isidro Company , the visitors witnessed how , via the controlled and protected planting of seeds in greenhouses , it is also possible to provide farmers with crops that are more pest-resistant which will make their farms more productive . On this farm , certified lettuce , tomato , green onion , sweet pepper , broccoli and other seeds are planted in organic soil that has been sterilized with hulled rice , sugar cane bagasse and steam . The resulting plantlets are then delivered to farmers who have ordered them . According to Estwick and Farnum , Barbados , given its geographic location , is very susceptible to severe weather that can affect their plantations . Both felt that what they had observed in Costa Rica could have practical applications in their country . The visit concluded with a meeting with Victor M. Villalobos , Director General of IICA , to discuss topics related to cooperation , which would be provided by the IICA Office in Barbados ."	News
1649	Hanukkah falls on the eve of the 25th of the Jewish month of Kislev and lasts eight days . That lands it somewhere in December ( though in 2013 it fell on Thanksgiving in November , an extremely rare occurrence ) . In 2016 – or 5777 , according to the Jewish calendar – Hanukkah begins at sundown on December 24 and lasts through January 1 . For the first time since 1978 , Hanukkah will overlap with the Christmas holiday and end on New Year's Day . Also called the Festival of Lights , Hanukkah celebrates events from more than 2,000 years ago . First and foremost , it commemorates the rededication of the Second Temple in Jerusalem after a successful revolt of the Jewish people led by Judah Maccabee against their Syrian-Greek oppressors , who had tried to assimilate the Jewish people and , in so doing , had desecrated the Temple . The reason the holiday is celebrated for eight days stems from what is told in the Talmud : when it came time for the rededication of the Second Temple , only one day's worth of pure oil was found to use in the temple's menorah – which was meant to burn all night every night – but miraculously the oil burned for eight days . This gave enough time to collect a fresh supply of oil and , with the belief that a miracle from God had occurred , a reason to celebrate for a full eight days . Today , especially in North America , Hanukkah is often thought of as the Jewish counterpart to Christmas , an association that developed because of Hanukkah's proximity to December 25 . The giving of gifts and displaying of holiday decorations have nothing to do with the Jewish holiday but were customs adopted from Christmas traditions . True Hanukkah traditions include lighting the candles on a nine-branched menorah called a Hanukkiah and saying the blessings , making and eating potato latkes ( pancakes ) and sufganiyot ( jelly doughnuts ) – both cooked in oil – and playing dreidel , a game of chance played with a four-sided top .	Information/Explanation
657	I 've never been able to shed it myself , you know , I still feel very Turkish in that sense . You know , I still smell the country and it 's always so alive and real there . And I 'm also in many ways much more confident there than I am here . I 'm confident at work in a way , you know , because I run a successful business , I ran other successful businesses , you know , and I have a status here and people know me , blah blah blah blah blah , all those things . But I feel really good when I 'm in Turkey , it 's a different kind of confidence . And I think it 's because like , you know , I know my brothers are there and my sister , you know , it 's sort of like you feel that you 've got the protected halo around you , which is the family . Good or bad , and at times I may hate them , it 's sort of , it 's like wearing a coat , a warm coat , and I feel that I do n't have that warm coat here . And that must be the family link .	Opinion/Argumentation
1044	"( 1 ) This Order may be cited as the Companies Consolidation ( Consequential Provisions ) ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1986 . ( 2 ) This Order comes into operation on the expiration of three months from the day on which it is made . Interpretation 2 . -- ( 1 ) The M1 Interpretation Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1954 applies to Article 1 and the following provisions of this Order as it applies to a Measure of the Northern Ireland Assembly . ( 2 ) In this Order -- "" the Act of 1960 "" means the M2 Companies Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1960 , "" the Order of 1981 "" means the M3 Companies ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1981 , "" the Order of 1982 "" means the M4 Companies ( Northern Ireland ) Order1982 , and "" the principal Order "" means the M5 Companies ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1986 ; and expressions used in this Order and also in the principal Order have the same meanings in this Order as in that ( the provisions of Part I of that Order to apply accordingly ) . Old Public companies Meaning of "" old public company "" 3 . -- ( 1 ) For the purposes of the principal Order and this Order , an "" old public company "" is a company limited by shares or by guarantee and having a share capital in respect of which the following conditions are satisfied -- ( a ) the company either existed on 1st July 1983 or was incorporated after that date pursuant to an application made before that date , ( b ) on that date or , if later , on the date of the company's incorporation the company was not or ( as the case may be ) would not have been a private company within the meaning of section 28 of the Act of 1960 , and ( c ) the company has not since that date or the date of the company's incorporation ( as the case may be ) either been re-registered as a public company or become a private company . ( 2 ) References in the principal Order ( other than so much of it as is derived from Part II of the Order of 1981 , and other than Article 43 ( prohibition on trading under misleading name )) to a public company or a company other than a private company are to be read as including ( unless the context otherwise requires ) references to an old public company , and references in that Order to a private company are to be read accordingly . Re-registration as public company 4 . -- ( 1 ) An old public company may be re-registered as a public company if -- ( a ) the directors pass a resolution , complying with paragraph ( 2 ) , that it should be so re-registered , and ( b ) an application for the purpose in the prescribed form and signed by a director or secretary of the company is delivered to the registrar together with the documents mentioned in paragraph ( 4 ) , and ( c ) at the time of the resolution , the conditions specified in Article 5 are satisfied . ( 2 ) The resolution must alter the company's memorandum so that it states that the company is to be a public company and make such other alterations in it as are necessary to bring it in substance and in form into conformity with the requirements of the principal Order with respect to the memorandum of the public company . ( 3 ) A resolution of the directors under this Article is subject to Article 388 of the principal Order ( copy of resolution to be forwarded to registrar within 15 days ) . ( 4 ) The documents referred to in paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) are -- ( a ) a printed copy of the memorandum as altered in pursuance of the resolution , and ( b ) a statutory declaration in the prescribed form by a director or secretary of the company that the resolution has been passed and that the conditions specified in Article 5 were satisfied at the time of the resolution . ( 5 ) The registrar may accept a declaration under paragraph 4 ( b ) as sufficient evidence that the resolution has been passed and the necessary conditions were satisfied . ( 6 ) Article 57 ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) of the principal Order applies on an application for re-registration under this Article as it applies on an application under Article 53 of that Order . Conditions for re-registering under Article 4 5 . -- ( 1 ) The following are the conditions referred to in Article 4 ( 1 ) ( c ) ( being conditions also relevant under Article 6 ) . ( 2 ) At the time concerned , the nominal value of the company's allotted share capital must not be less than the authorised minimum ( defined in Article 128 of the principal Order ) . ( 3 ) In the case of all the shares of the company , or of all those of its shares which are comprised in a portion of the share capital which satisfies the condition in paragraph ( 2 ) -- ( a ) each share must be paid up at least as to one-quarter of the nominal value of that share and the whole of any premium on it ; ( b ) where any of the shares in question or any premium payable on them has been fully or partly paid up by an undertaking given by any person that he or another should do work or perform services for the company or another , the undertaking must have been performed or otherwise discharged ; and ( c ) where any of the shares in question has been allotted as fully or partly paid up as to its nominal value or any premium payable on it otherwise than in cash , and the consideration for the allotment consists of or includes an undertaking ( other than one to which sub-paragraph ( b ) applies ) to the company , then either -- ( i ) that undertaking must have been either performed or otherwise discharged , or ( ii ) there must be a contract between the company and some person pursuant to which the undertaking is to be performed within 5 years from the time of the resolution . Old public company becoming private 6 . -- ( 1 ) An old public company may pass a special resolution not to be re-registered under Article 4 as a public company ; and Article 64 of the principal Order ( litigated objection by shareholders ) applies to the resolution as it would apply to a special resolution by a public company to be re-registered as private . ( 2 ) If either -- ( a ) 28 days from the passing of the resolution elapse without an application being made under Article 64 of the principal Order ( as applied ) , or ( b ) such an application is made and proceedings are concluded on the application without the court making an order for the cancellation of the resolution , the registrar shall issue the company with a certificate stating that it is a private company ; and the company then becomes a private company by virtue of the issue of the certificate . ( 3 ) For the purposes of paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) , proceedings on the application are concluded -- ( a ) except in a case within sub-paragraph ( b ) , when the period mentioned in Article 64 ( 7 ) of the principal Order ( as applied ) for delivering an office copy of the court's order under that Article to the registrar has expired , or ( b ) when the company has been notified that the application has been withdrawn . ( 4 ) If an old public company delivers to the registrar a statutory declaration in the prescribed form by a director or secretary of the company that the company does not at the time of the declaration satisfy the conditions specified in Article 5 for the company to be re-registered as public , the registrar shall issue the company with a certificate stating that it is a private company ; and the company then becomes a private company by virtue of the issue of the certificate . ( 5 ) A certificate issued to a company under paragraph ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) is conclusive evidence that the requirements of that paragraph have been complied with and that the company is a private company . Failure by old public company to obtain new classification 7 . -- ( 1 ) If at any time a company which is an old public company has not delivered to the registrar a declaration under Article 6 ( 4 ) , the company and any officer of it who is in default is guilty of an offence unless at that time the company -- ( a ) has applied to be re-registered under Article 4 , and the application has not been refused or withdrawn , or ( b ) has passed a special resolution not to be re-registered under that Article , and the resolution has not been revoked , and has not been cancelled under Article 64 of the principal Order as applied by Article 6 of this Order . ( 2 ) A person guilty of an offence under paragraph ( 1 ) is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding one-fifth of the statutory maximum or , on conviction after continued contravention , to a daily default fine not exceeding one-fiftieth of the statutory maximum for every day on which that paragraph is contravened . Shares of old public company held by itself ; charges on own shares 8 . -- ( 1 ) The following has effect notwithstanding Article 3 ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) References to a public company in Articles 156 to 159 of the principal Order ( treatment of a company's shares when acquired by itself ) do not include an old public company ; and references in those Articles to a private company are to be read accordingly . ( 3 ) In the case of a company which after 30th September 1984 remained an old public company and did not on or before that date apply to be re-registered under Article 10 of the Order of 1981 as a public company , any charge on its own shares which was in existence on or immediately before that date is a permitted charge for the purposes of Chapter V of Part VI of the principal Order and accordingly not void under Article 160 of that Order . Offers of shares and debentures by old public company 9 . Article 91 of the principal Order applies to an old public company as if it were a private company such as is mentioned in paragraph ( 1 ) of that Article . Trading under misleading name 10 . -- ( 1 ) An old public company is guilty of an offence if it carries on any trade , profession or business under a name which includes , as its last part , the words "" public limited company "" or any contraction or imitation of those words . ( 2 ) During the 3 years following the re-registration of an old public company under Article 10 of the Order of 1981 , Article 356 ( 1 ) of the principal Order and any other statutory provision requiring or authorising the name of the company to be shown on any document or other object , apply as if any reference in that provision to the name of the company were a reference to a name which either is its name or was its name before re-registration . ( 3 ) A company guilty of an offence under paragraph ( 1 ) , and any officer of the company who is in default , is liable on summary conviction as for an offence under Article 43 of the principal Order . Payment for share capital 11 . -- ( 1 ) Subject to paragraph ( 2 ) , Articles 109 , 111 to 113 , 116 , 118 and 120 to 125 of the principal Order apply to a company whose directors have passed and not revoked a resolution to be re-registered under Article 4 of this Order , as those Articles apply to a public company . ( 2 ) Articles 109 , 111 to 113 , 118 and 122 of the principal Order do not apply to the allotment of shares by a company , other than a public company registered as such on its original incorporation , where the contract for the allotment was entered into -- ( a ) except in a case falling within sub-paragraph ( b ) , on or before 31st December 1984 ; ( b ) in the case of a company re-registered or registered as a public company in pursuance of -- ( i ) a resolution to be re-registered under Article 53 of the principal Order , ( ii ) a resolution to be re-registered under Article r of this Order , or ( iii ) a resolution by a joint stock company that the company be a public company , being a resolution that was passed on or before 31st December 1984 , before the date on which the resolution was passed . Miscellaneous savings Pre-1901 companies limited by guarantee 12 . Article 26 of the principal Order does not apply in the case of companies registered before 1st January 1901 . Company official seal 13 . -- ( 1 ) A company which was incorporated before 1st January 1982 and which has such an official seal as is mentioned in Article 50 of the principal Order may use the seal for sealing such securities and documents as are there mentioned , notwithstanding anything in any instrument constituting or regulating the company or in any instrument made before that date which relates to any securities issued by the company . ( 2 ) Any provision of such an instrument which requires any such securities or documents to be signed shall not apply to the securities or documents if they are sealed with that seal . Share premiums : retrospective relief 14 . -- ( 1 ) The relief given by this Article ( being a re-enactment of Article 40 of the Order of 1982 ) applies only where a company has issued shares in circumstances to which this Article applies before 4th February 1981 . ( 2 ) Subject as follows , this Article applies where the issuing company ( that is , the company issuing shares as mentioned in Article 140 of the principal Order ) has issued at a premium shares which were allotted in pursuance of any arrangement providing for the allotment of shares in the issuing company on terms that the consideration for the shares allotted was to be provided by the issue or transfer to the issuing company of shares in another company or by the cancellation of any shares in that other company not held by the issuing company . ( 3 ) The other company in question must either have been at the time of the arrangement a subsidiary of the issuing company or of any company which was then the issuing company's holding company or have become such a subsidiary on the acquisition or cancellation of its shares in pursuance of the arrangement . ( 4 ) Any part of the premiums on the shares so issued which was not transferred to the company's share premium account in accordance with section 56 of the Act of 1960 shall be treated as if that section had never applied to those premiums ( and may accordingly be disregarded in determining the sum to be included in the company's share premium account ) . ( 5 ) Article 143 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of the principal Order applies for the interpretation of this Article ; and for the purposes of this Article -- ( a ) "" company "" ( except in references to the issuing company ) includes any body corporate , and ( b ) the definition of "" arrangement "" in Article 141 ( 7 ) of the principal Order applies . ( 6 ) This Article is deemed included in Chapter III of Part VI of the principal Order for the purpose of the Department's power under Article 144 of that Order to make regulations in respect of relief from the requirements of Article 140 of that Order . Saving , in case of re-issued debentures , of rights of certain mortgagees 15 . Whereas by section 104 of the M6 Companies ( Consolidation ) Act 1908 it was provided that , upon the re-issue of redeemed debentures , the person entitled to the debentures should have the same rights and priorities as if the debentures had not previously been issued : And whereas section 49 of the M7 Companies Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1930 amended section 104 of the Act of 1908 so as to provide ( among other things ) that the said person should have the same priorities as if the debentures had never been redeemed , but saved , in the case of debentures redeemed before , but re-issued after , 1st January 1933 , the rights and priorities of persons under mortgages and charges created before that date : Now , therefore , where any debentures which were redeemed before the date last mentioned have been re-issued after that date and before the commencement of the Act of 1960 ( 1st April 1961 ) , or are or have been re-issued after that commencement , the re-issue of the debentures does not prejudice , and is deemed never to have prejudiced , any right or priority which any person would have had under or by virtue of any such mortgage or charge as above referred to if section 104 of the Act of 1908 , as originally enacted , had been enacted in the Act of 1960 instead of section 89 of that Act , and in the principal Order instead of Article 203 of that Order . Removal of directors appointed for life 16 . Article 311 ( 1 ) of the principal Order does not , in the case of a private company , authorise the removal of a director holding office for life on 31st July 1979 , whether or not subject to retirement under an age limit by virtue of the company's articles or otherwise . Tax-free payments to directors 17 . Paragraph ( 1 ) of Article 319 of the principal Order does not apply to remuneration under a contract which was in force on 27th October 1959 and provides expressly ( and not by reference to the company's articles ) for payment of remuneration as mentioned in that paragraph ; and paragraph ( 2 ) of that Article does not apply to any provision contained in such a contract . Statutory declaration of solvency in voluntary winding up 18 . In relation to a winding up commenced before 1st July 1983 , Article 535 of the principal Order applies in the form of section 253 of the Act of 1960 , without the amendment of that section made by Article 104 of the Order of 1982 . Effect of floating charge in winding up 19 . In relation to a charge created on or before 30th September 1960 , Article 573 ( 1 ) of the principal Order has effect with the substitution of "" 6 months "" for "" 12 months "" . Priority of old debts in winding up 20 . Nothing in this Order affects the priority to which any person may have been entitled under section 287 of the Act of 1960 in respect of a debt of any of the descriptions specified in paragraph ( a ) ( ii ) of subsection ( 1 ) of that section ( which included references to profits tax and excess profits tax ) . Savings as to certain old liquidations 21 . -- ( 1 ) The provisions of the principal Order with respect to winding up ( other than Article 588 and paragraph ( 2 )) do not apply to any company of which the winding up commenced before 1st January 1933 ; but every such company shall be wound up in the same manner and with the same incidents as if the M8 Companies Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1932 , the Act of 1960 and the principal Order ( apart from the provisions above-mentioned ) had not passed or been made ; and , for the purposes of the winding up , the statutory provision or provisions under which the winding up commenced are deemed to remain in full force . ( 2 ) An office copy of every order staying the proceedings in a winding up commenced as mentioned in paragraph ( 1 ) shall forthwith be forwarded by the company , or otherwise as may be prescribed , to the registrar for registration . Art . 22 rep . by SI 2001 / 3649 Art . 23--Amendments Repeals and continuity of law Art . 24 -- Repeals Continuity of law 25 . -- ( 1 ) In this Article -- ( a ) "" the Orders "" means the principal Order , the M9 Company Securities ( Insider Dealing ) ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1986 , the M10 Business Names ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1986 and this Order ; ( b ) "" the Acts "" means the Companies Acts ( Northern Ireland ) 1960 to 1983 and any other statutory provision which is repealed by this Order and replaced by a corresponding provision in the Orders ; and ( c ) "" the commencement date "" means the date on which this Order comes into operation . ( 2 ) Where any period of time specified in a provision of the Acts is current immediately before the commencement date , the Orders have effect as if the corresponding provision had been in force when the period began to run ; and ( without prejudice to the foregoing ) any period of time so specified and current is deemed for the purposes of the Orders -- ( a ) to run from the date or event from which it was running immediately before the commencement date , and ( b ) to expire ( subject to any provision of the Orders for its extension ) whenever it would have expired if the Orders had not been passed ; and any rights , priorities , liabilities , reliefs , obligations , requirements , powers , duties or exemptions dependent on the beginning , duration or end of such a period as above mentioned shall be under the Orders as they were or would have been under the Acts . ( 3 ) Where in any provision of the Orders there is a reference to another provision of those Orders , and the first-mentioned provision operates , or is capable of operating , in relation to things done or omitted , or events occurring or not occurring , in the past ( including in particular past acts of compliance with any statutory provision , failures of compliance , contraventions , offences and convictions of offences ) , the reference to that other provision is to be read as including a reference to the corresponding provision of the Acts . ( 4 ) A contravention of any provision of the Acts committed before the commencement date shall not be visited with any more severe punishment under or by virtue of the Orders than would have been applicable under that provision at the time of the contravention ; but -- ( a ) where an offence for the continuance of which a penalty was provided has been committed under any provision of the Acts , proceedings may be taken under the Orders in respect of the continuance of the offence after the commencement date in the like manner as if the offence had been committed under the corresponding provision of the Orders ; and ( b ) the repeal of any transitory provision of the Acts ( not replaced by any corresponding provision of the Orders ) requiring a thing to be done within a certain time does not affect a person's continued liability to be prosecuted and punished in respect of the failure , or continued failure , to do that thing . ( 5 ) The generality of section 29 ( 3 ) ( b ) of the M11 Interpretation Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1954 is not affected by any specific conversion of references made by this Order , nor by the inclusion in any provision of the Orders of a reference ( whether express or implied , and in whatever phraseology ) to the provision of the Acts corresponding to that provision , or to a provision of the Acts which is replaced by a corresponding provision of the Orders . ( 6 ) Nothing in the Orders affects -- ( a ) the registration or re-registration of any company under the former Companies Acts , or the continued existence of any company by virtue of such registration or re-registration ; or ( b ) the application of -- ( i ) Table B in the M12 Joint Stock Companies Act 1856 , or ( ii ) Table A in the M13 Companies Act 1862 , the M14 Companies ( Consolidation ) Act 1908 , the M15 Companies Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1932 or the Act of 1960 , to any company existing immediately before the commencement date ; or ( c ) the operation of any statutory provision providing for any partnership , association or company being wound up , or being wound up as a company or as an unregistered company under any of the former Companies Acts . ( 7 ) Anything saved from repeal by section 403 of the Act of 1960 and still in force immediately before the commencement date remains in force notwithstanding the repeal by this Order of any provision of that Act . ( 8 ) Where any provision of the Orders was , immediately before the commencement date , contained in or given effect by a statutory rule ( whether or not made under a power in any of the Acts ) , then -- ( a ) the foregoing provisions of this Article have effect as if that provision was contained in the Acts , and ( b ) insofar as the provision was , immediately before that date , subject to a power ( whether or not under the Acts ) of variation or revocation , nothing in the Orders is to be taken as prejudicing any future exercise of the power . ( 9 ) The provisions of this Article are without prejudice to the operation of sections 28 and 29 of the M16 Interpretation Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1954 ( savings from , and effect of , repeals ) ; and for the purposes of section 29 ( 3 ) of that Act ( effect of provisions repealing and re-enacting other provisions ) , any provision of the Acts which is replaced by a provision of the principal Order , the M17 Company Securities ( Insider Dealing ) ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1986 or the M18 Business Names ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1986 is deemed to have been repealed and re-enacted by that one of the Orders and not by this Order ."	Legal
615	reating a website as a resource for black writers Martin Glynn , poet & playright I feel personally I had a very emotional traumatic journey doing my stuff , in a real sense ; I 'll explain why in a minute . I was very resistant - when I was first asked to look at this I did n't want to get involved . I 'm a storyteller , I 've been in the African oral tradition for 20 years , I 've worked in about 2000 schools , I 've worked extensively in prison . Basically I 've worked with a lot of people that society has forgotten , that 's who I work with . I 've been performing poetry for 20-odd years , I 've travelled around the world with it ... So poetry for me is a way of life . It 's not something I do ; it 's a way of life . My work has been translated for Radio 4 , so I 've worked in radio and I 've used sound as a medium to promote poetry . I also write film & TV scripts ; when you 're writing dialogue for a TV show , you 're writing pure poetry in many respects . So , fortunately for me , I 've engaged with the visual medium . But I have to say that when I came into contact with the possibility of doing something on-line I had a lot of scepticism . On my journal - it took me 5 weeks to actually do anything on-line . If you read my journal ( link ) I was really depressed ; after the first two weeks I wanted to give up . Could n't do it . After an initial period of trepidation frustration and insecurity , I managed to navigate the terrain of the internet . When I uploaded my first piece , I 'm telling you , it was like constipation . The euphoric feeling of actually doing something was amazing . I have to say when I came to this , it took me ages . For me it was traumatic because I got very frustrated , I wanted to give up ; the thing that I want to say is that Sue and Leonie have the one ingredient that has n't been talked about this morning , and that is patience . When I wanted to just throw in the towel I forgot that my status in the Black community is quite high and therefore a lot of people depend on me , and I was willing to walk away from it which meant that - because I work with people that you lot do n't see : I work with guys serving life , I work with kids who sell crack , I work with so many Black people , and all of these people are very creative because they 're all good storytellers . And I suddenly realised if I walked away from it what chance do some of these people have at all . I work with a lot of people who are dyslexic - people who are dyslexic commit crimes because they 're told they 're stupid , so when you say let 's talk about the internet ... When we started to get into the kind of big issues , I started to talk to members of the Black community , to surf around and I started to see what was my community doing on the internet , because somebody said to me everybody can get access to the internet and I thought well no that 's not true because if you ca n't afford it you ca n't get access : if you 're on social security and you have n't got a telephone you ca n't get access . What my problem was is I come from the oral tradition , and also from the Black community . And the biggest issue for me was the fact that as a community we are what I call silent voices : we do n't figure in the world of publishing , we do not figure in television , we do not figure in the media . Basically , we do n't figure . We put up lots of information - history , politics - but in terms of the creative use of this medium that 's what I started to get panicky about , because I could n't get any reference points . People were saying the internet is not culturally-specific , anyone can do it and I 'm saying that 's not true . With films you can do it because you 've seen someone , but as I said the first time I had a chat room conversation with Leonie I had a problem because I could n't see Leonie , I could n't touch Leonie , so I said how honest is Leonie with me on-line ? Nothing to do with her , but I 'm used to interaction , work-shopping , touching people , and that was my first big problem because I 'm thinking if I 'm going to talk to Leonie every week , in an on-line dialogue , I 'm going to have to trust her . I understand sub-text , so when you 're writing a line of dialogue you ask what is the sub-text in this dialogue , so when we 're having a conversation on-line , I 'm trying to gauge what the sub-text is ; see my point ? So suddenly I started thinking I ca n't handle this , I have to phone her up , because I need to hear her voice . It was easier for me to talk to her than to type , because I was concerned that as a performer I can use my hands , I can use my voice , I can use my body to engage ; now I 'm faced with this situation of the ultimate dying discipline of sitting on my ass in front of a keyboard typing . And I was resistant . I realise that for me , it 's not that I was scared of the internet , it 's just that I was resistant to change . I did n't want to do something different . I did n't want to sit there and engage in a different way , which showed me I was conservative , and I had to get beyond that point . So I bought Microsoft Frontpage . You know , when I go into Waterstone's , I 'm the person that buys ' The Idiot's Guide ' - that 's me ( and even that 's too sophisticated sometimes for me , so I 'll probably have to write the version , you know , ' Idiot's Guide to the Idiot's Guide ' ) . But nevertheless in terms of the process of collaboration that myself and Leonie went on , it was n't just about Leonie and me , it was about my partner . Because when I came off totally frustrated she had to put her arm around my shoulder when I was really in tears because the program crashed and I could n't do it . It was my kids , who when I 'd bite at them and shout at them because I was upset , would realise dad 's upset because he ca n't do stuff on the computer and wait until I settled down . I realised that what made it worthwhile is my friends who 'd come in , who ca n't read and write , who would look at the visualisation of what I had done and would actually get some enjoyment out of it without being made to feel inadequate . [ link to poem ] ' Covise ' is an anagram of voices , because I have a lot of voices in my head and I 'm not schizophrenic , but in the black community you 're six times more likely to get diagnosed as schizophrenic because there 's no culture diagnosis for schizophrenia . Sometimes I 'm a father , sometimes I 'm a grandfather , sometimes I 'm a stepfather , sometimes I do n't even know who I am . So all these voices , does n't make me schizophrenic but it will affect my behavior . So I came up with a piece that would reflect that , and Covise is it . If you jumble up ' voices ' you get ' covise ' and I came up with a new meaning , so if you 're in a state of ' covise ' you 're in a state where you 've got all these personalities but you 're not schizophrenic . So what I wanted to do , this is like a jazz poem because I 'm very much into jazz improvisation , so what I tried to do is some visual stuff with the language , so everytime you click on the screen ( and somebody said you do n't want lots of text , well I like lots of text , because people do n't read enough as far as I 'm concerned ) . You know , I work in film where the first thing the producer says is give me a strat line , so you 've got 6 lines to sell the script . So for me , I wanted to do something that was long . Because , my kids - they do n't read anything longer than 3 minutes , so I wanted someone to spend a good half an hour on this . Really , I look at it from a slightly different point of view in that the people I 'm aiming at , I want them to actually soak it in , on top of a visual experience . I wanted someone who would read it to speak it out . So the bigger the letters , the louder you read it out .	Opinion/Argumentation
177	"Good afternoon . There 's a medical revolution happening all around us , and it 's one that 's going to help us conquer some of society's most dreaded conditions , including cancer . And the revolution is called angiogenesis , and it 's based on the process that our bodies use to grow blood vessels . So why should we care about blood vessels ? Well , the human body is literally packed with them , 60,000 miles worth in a typical adult . End to end , that would form a line that would circle the earth twice . The smallest blood vessels are called capillaries . We 've got 19 billion of them in our bodies . And these are the vessels of life , and , as I 'll show you , they can also be the vessels of death . Now the remarkable thing about blood vessels is that they have this ability to adapt to whatever environment they 're growing in . For example , in the liver they form channels to detoxify the blood . In the lung , they line air sacs for gas exchange . In muscle , they corkscrew so that muscles can contract without cutting off circulation . And in nerves , they course along like power lines , keeping those nerves alive . And we get most of these blood vessels when we 're actually still in the womb . And what that means is that , as adults , blood vessels do n't normally grow , except in a few special circumstances . In women , blood vessels grow every month to build the lining of the uterus . During pregnancy , they form the placenta , which connects mom and baby . And after injury , blood vessels actually have to grow under the scab in order to heal a wound . And this is actually what it looks like . Hundreds of blood vessels all growing to the center of the wound . So the body has the ability to regulate the amount of blood vessels that are present at any given time . And it does this through an elaborate and elegant system of checks and balances , stimulators and inhibitors of angiogenesis , such that , when we need a brief burst of blood vessels , the body can do this by releasing stimulators , proteins called angiogenic factors that act as natural fertilizer and stimulate new blood vessels to sprout . And when those excess vessels are no longer needed , the body prunes them back to baseline using naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis . Now there are other situations where we start beneath the baseline , and we need to grow more blood vessels just to get back to normal levels . For example , after an injury . And a body can do that too , but only to that normal level , that set point . But what we now know is , for a number of diseases , there are defects in the system , where the body ca n ' t prune back extra blood vessels or ca n ' t grow enough new ones in the right place at the right time . And in these situations , angiogenesis is out of balance . And when angiogenesis is out of balance , a myriad of diseases result . For example , insufficient angiogenesis , not enough blood vessels , leads to wounds that do n't heal , heart attacks , legs without circulation , death from stroke , nerve damage . And on the other end , excessive angiogenesis , too many blood vessels , drives disease . And we see this in cancer , blindness , arthritis , obesity , Alzheimer's disease . In total , there are more than 70 major diseases , affecting more than a billion people worldwide , that all look on the surface to be different from one another , but all actually share abnormal angiogenesis as their common denominator . And this realization is allowing us to reconceptualize the way that we actually approach these diseases by controlling angiogenesis . Now I 'm going to focus on cancer because angiogenesis is a hallmark of cancer , every type of cancer . So here we go . This is a tumor , dark , gray , ominous mass growing inside a brain . And under the microscope , you can see hundreds of these brown staining blood vessels , capillaries that are feeding cancer cells , bringing oxygen and nutrients . But cancers do n't start out like this . And , in fact , cancers do n't start out with a blood supply . They start out as small , microscopic nests of cells That can only grow to one half a cubic millimeter in size . That 's the tip of a ballpoint pen . Then they ca n ' t get any larger because they do n't have a blood supply , so they do n't have enough oxygen or nutrients . And in fact , we 're probably forming these microscopic cancers all the time in our body . Autopsy studies from people who died in car accidents have shown that about 40 percent of women between the ages of 40 and 50 actually have microscopic cancers in their breasts . About 50 percent of men in their 50s and 60s have microscopic prostate cancers . And virtually 100 percent of us , by the time we reach our 70s , will have microscopic cancers growing in our thyroid . Yet , without a blood supply , most of these cancers will never become dangerous . Dr. Judah Folkman , who was my mentor , and who was the pioneer of the angiogenesis field , once called this "" cancer without disease . "" So the body's ability to balance angiogenesis , when it 's working properly , prevents blood vessels from feeding cancers . And this turns out to be one of our most important defense mechanisms against cancer . In fact , if you actually block angiogenesis and prevent blood vessels from ever reaching cancer cells , tumors simply ca n ' t grow up . But once angiogenesis occurs , cancers can grow exponentially . And this is actually how a cancer goes from being harmless to deadly . Cancer cells mutate and they gain the ability to release lots of those angiogenic factors , natural fertilizer , that tip the balance in favor of blood vessels invading the cancer . And once those vessels invade the cancer , it can expand , it can invade local tissues . And the same vessels that are feeding tumors , allow cancer cells to exit into the circulation as metastases . And , unfortunately , this late stage of cancer is the one at which it 's most likely to be diagnosed , when angiogenesis is already turned on , and cancer cells are growing like wild . So , if angiogenesis is a tipping point between a harmless cancer and a harmful one , then one major part of the angiogenesis revolution is a new approach to treating cancer by cutting off the blood supply . We call this antiangiogenic therapy , and it 's completely different from chemotherapy because it selectively aims at the blood vessels that are feeding the cancers . And we can do this because tumor blood vessels are unlike normal , healthy vessels we see in other places of the body . They 're abnormal ; they 're very poorly constructed ; and , because of that , they 're highly vulnerable to treatments that target them . In effect , when we give cancer patients antiangiogenic therapy -- here , an experimental drug for a glioma , which is a type of brain tumor -- you can see that there are dramatic changes that occur when the tumor is being starved . Here 's a woman with a breast cancer being treated with the antiangiogenic drug called Avastin , which is FDA approved . And you can see that the halo of blood flow disappears after treatment . Well , I 've just shown you two very different types of cancer that both responded to antiangiogenic therapy . So , a few years ago , I asked myself , "" Can we take this one step further , and treat other cancers , even in other species ? "" So here is a nine year-old boxer named Milo who had a very agressive tumor called a malignant neurofibroma growing on his shoulder . It invaded into his lungs . His veterinarian only gave him three months to live . So we created a cocktail of antiangiogenic drugs that could be mixed into his dog food as well as an antiangiogenic cream that could be applied on the surface of the tumor . And within a few weeks of treatment , we were able to slow down that cancer's growth such that we were ultimately able to extend milo's survival to six times what the veterinarian had initially predicted , all with a very good quality of life . And we subsequently treated more than 600 dogs . We have about a 60 percent response rate and improved survival for these pets that were about to be euthanized . So let me show you a couple of even more interesting examples . This is 20 year old dolphin living in Florida , and she had these lesions in her mouth that , over the course of three years , developed into invasive squamous cell cancers . So we created an antiangiogenic paste . We had it painted on top of the cancer three times a week . And over the course of seven months , the cancers completely disappeared , and the biopsies came back as normal . Here 's a cancer growing on the lip of a quarter horse named Guiness . It 's a very , very deadly type of cancer called an angiosarcoma . It had already spread to his lymph nodes , so we used an antiangiogenic skin cream for the lip and an oral cocktail , so we could treat from the inside as well as the outside . And over the course of six months , he experienced a complete remission . And here he is six years later , Guiness , with his very happy owner . ( Applause ) Now , obviously , antiangiogenic therapy could be used for a wide range of cancers . And , in fact , the first pioneering treatments , for people , as well as dogs , are already becoming available . There 's 12 different drugs , 11 different cancer types , but the real question is : How well do these work in practice ? So here 's actually the patient survival data from eight different types of cancer . And the bars represent survival time taken from the era in which there was only chemotherapy , or surgery , or radiation available . But starting in 2004 , when antiangiogenic therapies first became available , well you can see that there has been a 70 to 100 percent improvement in survival for people with kidney cancer , multiple myeloma , colorectal cancer , and gastrointestinal stromal tumors . That 's impressive . But for other tumors and cancer types , the improvements have only been modest . So I started asking myself , "" Why have n ' t we been able to do better ? "" And the answer , to me , is obvious ; we 're treating cancer too late in the game , when it 's already established , and , oftentimes , it 's already spread or metastasized . And as a doctor , I know that , once a disease progresses to an advanced stage , achieving a cure can be difficult , if not impossible . So I went back to the biology of angiogenesis and started thinking : Could the answer to cancer be preventing angiogenesis , beating cancer at its own game so the cancers could never become dangerous ? This could help healthy people as well as people who 've already beaten cancer once or twice and want to find a way to keep it from coming back . So to look for a way to prevent angiogenesis in cancer , I went back to look at cancer's causes . And what really intrigued me was when I saw that diet accounts for 30 to 35 percent of environmentally caused cancers . Now , the obvious thing is to think about what we could remove from our diet , what what to strip out , take away . But I actually took a completely opposite approach and began asking : What could we be adding to our diet that 's naturally antiangiogenic , that could boost the body's defense system and beat back those blood vessels that are feeding cancers ? In other words , can we eat to starve cancer ? Well , the answer 's yes . And I 'm going to show you how . And our search for this has taken us to the market , the farm and to the spice cabinet because what we 've discovered is that mother nature has laced a large number of foods and beverages and herbs with naturally occurring inhibitors of angiogenesis . So here 's a test system we developed . At the center is a ring from which hundreds of blood vessels are growing out in a star burst fashion . And we can use this system to test dietary factors at concentrations that are obtainable by eating . So let me show you what happens when we put in an extract from red grapes . The active ingredient's resveratrol . It 's also found in red wine . This inhibits abnormal angiogenesis by 60 percent . Here 's what happens when we add an extract from strawberries . It potently inhibits angiogenesis . And extract from soy beans . And here is a growing list of our antiangiogenic foods and beverages that we 're interested in studying . And for each food type , we believe there is different potencies within different strains and varietals . And we want to measure this because , well , while you 're eating a strawberry or drinking tea , why not select the one that 's most potent for preventing cancer . So here are four different teas that we 've tested . They 're all common ones , Chinese jasmine , Japanese sencha , Earl Grey and a special blend that we prepared . And you can see clearly that the teas vary in their potency from less potent to more potent . But what 's very cool is when we actually combined the two less potent teas together , the combination , the blend , is more potent than either one alone . This means there 's food synergy . Here 's some more data from our testing . Now , in the lab , we can simulate tumor angiogenesis represented here in a black bar . And using this system , we can test the potency of cancer drugs . So the shorter the bar , less angiogenesis , that 's good . And here are some common drugs that have been associated with reducing the risk of cancer in people . Statins , nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and a few others , they inhibit angiogenesis too . And here are the dietary factors going head to head against these drugs . You can see , they clearly hold their own and , in some cases , they 're more potent than the actual drugs . Soy , parsley , garlic , grapes , berries , I could go home and cook a tasty meal using these ingredients . So imagine if we could create the world's first rating system in which we could score foods according to their antiangiogenic cancer-preventative properties . And that 's what we 're doing right now . Now , I 've shown you a bunch of lab data , and so the real question is : What is the evidence in people that eating certain foods can reduce angiogenesis in cancer ? Well , the best example I know is a study of 79,000 men , followed over 20 years , in which it was found that men whom consumed cooked tomatoes two to three times a week had up to a 50 percent reduction in their risk of developing prostate cancer . Now , we know that tomatoes are a good source of lycopene , and lycopene is antiangiogenic . But what 's even more interesting from this study is that those men who did develop prostate cancer , those who ate more servings of tomato sauce actually had fewer blood vessels feeding their cancer . So this human study is a prime example of how antiangiogenic substances present in food and consumed at practical levels can impact on cancer . And we 're now studying the role of a healthy diet with Dean Ornish at UCSF and Tufts University on the role of this healthy diet on markers of angiogenesis that we can find in the bloodstream . Now , obviously , what I 've shared with you has some far-ranging implications even beyond cancer research . Because if we 're right , it could impact on consumer education , food services , public health and even the insurance industry . And , in fact , some insurance companies are already beginning to think along these lines . Check out this ad from Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota . And for many people around the world , dietary cancer prevention may be the only practical solution because not everybody can afford expensive end-stage cancer treatments , but everybody could benefit from a healthy diet based on local , sustainable , antiangiogenic crops . Now , finally , I 've talked to you about food , and I 've talked to you about cancer , so there 's just one more disease that I have to tell you about and that 's obesity . Because it turns out that adipose tissue , fat , is highly angiogenesis dependent . And , like a tumor , fat grows when blood vessels grow . So the question is : Can we shrink fat by cutting off its blood supply ? So the top curve shows the body weight of a genetically obese mouse that eats nonstop , until it turns fat like this furry tennis ball . And the bottom curve is the weight of a normal mouse . If you take the obese mouse and give it an angiogenesis inhibitor , it loses weight . Stop the treatment , gains the weight back . Restart the treatment , loses the weight again . Stop the treatment , it gains the weight back . And , in fact , you can cycle the weight up and down simply by inhibiting angiogenesis . So this approach that we 're taking for cancer prevention may also have an application for obesity . The really , truly interesting thing about this is that we ca n ' t take these obese mice and make them lose more weight than what the normal mouse's weight is supposed to be . In other words , we ca n ' t create supermodel mice . ( Laughter ) And this speaks to the role of angiogenesis in regulating healthy set points . Albert Szent-Gyorgi once said that , "" Discovery consists of seeing what everyone has seen , and thinking what no one has thought . "" I hope I 've convinced you that , for diseases like cancer , obesity and other conditions , that there may be a great power in attacking their common denominator , angiogenesis . And that 's what I think the world needs now . Thank you . ( Applause ) June Cohen : So these drugs are n ' t exactly -- they 're not exactly in mainstream cancer treatments right now . For anyone out here who has cancer , what would you recommend ? Do you recommend pursuing these treatments now , for most cancer patients ? William Li : So there are antiangiogenic treatments that are FDA approved . And if you 're a cancer patient or working for one or advocating for one , you should ask about them . And there are many clinical trials . The Angiogenesis Foundation is following almost 300 companies , and there 's about 100 more drugs in that pipeline . So consider the approved ones , look for clinical trials , but then between what the doctor can do for you , we need to start asking what can we do for ourselves . And this is one of the themes that I 'm talking about is we can empower ourselves to do the things that doctors ca n ' t do for us , which is to use knowledge and take action . And if mother nature has given us some clues , we think that there might be a new future in the value of how we eat . And what we eat is really our chemotherapy three times a day . JC : Right . And along those lines , for people who might have risk factors for cancer , would you recommend pursuing any treatments sort of prophylactically or simply pursuing the right diet with lots of tomato sauce ? WL : Well , you know , there 's an abundant epidemiological evidence . And I think in the information age , it does n ' t take long to go to a credible source like Pubmed , the National Library of Medicine , to look for epidemiological studies for cancer risk reduction based on diet and based on common medications . And that 's certainly something that anybody can look into . JC : Okay . Well , thank you so much . ( Applause ) </content"	Information/Explanation
1013	"Clarkson to steer news quiz Jeremy to host final HIGNFY Jeremy Clarkson is to host the final Have I Got News For You of the series . The Top Gear presenter will chair the topical news quiz on December 20 - and earn around £ 10 , 000 . He is the latest name to stand in for Angus Deayton , who was fired after a string of damaging newspaper stories . However Deayton will be back on BBC1 over Christmas , hosting another instalment of Before They Were Famous Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy is in the Have I Got News For You chair next week . A BBC spokesman said : "" We 're delighted Jeremy agreed but we are still looking for a permanent host next year . """	News
1202	"S. M. Bowes Time Traveler The great Albert Einstein theorized that time travel was possible by bending time and space via the means of gravitational forces . I 'd invented a time machine using his principal . Most believe that we can travel back in time , but this is not possible . The device would not have been invented ; ergo - one could not travel back further than when the machine had been invented . One could not alter history in any way . But what of the future ? Since we are weak species and seek power over those who are of a meek nature , we tend to destroy what we can not dominate . I have been to the future and have witnessed what one person had done to bring about the end of the human race . But I am getting ahead of myself . I must start at the beginning . My name is Harlen Davidson . I am a peaceful person . I could never tolerate war and longed to find a way to prevent it . I 'd invented my time machine specificlly for that purpose . After many years of trial and error I had finally perfected a machine that could travel through the dimensions of time and space . I was at the point where I could put it though the ultimate test by sending a guinea pig into the future . The guinea pig being me , of course . I would not allow another being to risk their life . The date was January 12th 2018 . I 'd decided that this was the hour I would venture into the future . I was very excited , but a little anxious about what mankind had achieved . I entered the time machine and sat down on the bench closing the door behind me . I pushed the buttons to start the procedure . The time machine shuddered , but nothing appeared to happen at first . All of a sudden , I saw a blinding , white light that seemed to appear from nowhere . It spun faster and faster . A tremendous pressure built up inside the cabin . I could barely read the dial that measured the years flying past . 2025 , 2030 , 2040 . I finally forced my hand up to the buttons and pushed them . The years slowed and the machine finally stopped . The dial read January 12th 3057 . Over one thousand years had elapsed . My head pounded as much as my heart when I grabbed the handle to open the door . My body felt as if it had gone though a meat grinder . I was weak at the knees as I stumbled out . The walls of my lab still stood , but were no more than a skeletal frame . Tables were covered in dirt and debris that had fallen from what was left of the ceiling . The laser machine , bent and broken , was barely recognizable . This did n't present a problem as the machine had stored enough energy to provide a way back to my era ten times over . I walked over to the lab door that was surprisingly still standing and unlocked the rusted bolt , then stepped out into the hallway . The stairs were in complete disrepair , but intact for the most part . I made my way up to the grand foyer . I walked to the front doors and shoved against them . They opened upon a new world . The roads had n't been used in what appeared to be centuries and weeds had sprouted between the cracks . It seemed mankind had taken to the air for our means of transportation . I could see specks in the distance that I assumed were flying vehicles speeding to and fro as if on an invisible highway . Skyscrapers soared high into the heavens . I sat down on a curb and tried to take it all in . I was in complete awe . I reached around to my backpack and grabbed my notebook . I had to put my sensations down into words . The only thing lacking in the near-by environment were human beings . Perhaps they no longer dwelled on the surface , but lived high above it . I had to find out . I got up off my haunches and started on my journey . I 'd walked for the better part of the day and was in the outskirts of city . I continued past abandoned buildings and after a few hours finally entered a portion of the city that appeared much newer . I walked to one of the buildings and the pushed against a door . It opened easily . The huge concourse was lit brightly . It appeared power plants still supplied electricity . The hall extended the entire length and breath of the building . I went to the elevators in the center and punched a button . The doors slid open immediately . I entered . The keypad was filled with numbers rising to 500 . I hit the button for the 250th floor . The doors slammed shut and the lift moved very swiftly . I reached my destination within seconds . The doors opened and I peeked out . The descendants of my time bustled about the office in a hurried state . I exited the elevator and looked about the room . One person glanced my way , but continued on his important errand as if I was n't there . One would wonder why he had n't stopped and asked why I wore such ancient clothing , as his was entirely different from mine . No suits or ties ; everyone was dressed in white jumpsuits from head to toe . No one paid heed to me as I wandered about . I stopped and stood behind a woman punching wildly at a keypad . She seemed oblivious to me . I asked her if there was anyone in charge whom I could speak to . She responded in a annoyed voice , but did not look away from the keyboard . "" Have n't you hooked up to the system this morning ? "" she asked . "" What system ? "" She finally looked up . Her brows raised quizzically when she noticed I was n't attired as everyone else . She grabbed a phone and spoke into it . I could not hear what was said . Not a minute had passed before two guards armed with some sort of weapony grabbed me and escorted me back to the elevators . The lift rose and the doors hissed open . The guards took me up to a desk . "" We 've got another one , "" one guard said to the person seated behind it . The man pushed a button and I was pushed into a room and told to wait . The guards exited the room with my backpack . It seemed I had no choice but to obey . There was nothing to occupy my mind as the minutes ticked by . There was a single chair in the middle of the room , but no tables nor windows to look out . I sighed and sat . It seemed as if hours passed before I heard someone at the door . A tall man walked in and regarded me silently as he circled my chair before asking , "" Why did n't you plug in this morning ? "" "" Plug in ? "" "" Yes . Plug in . You know it 's mandatory . "" "" I do n't know what you mean . I 'm not from here . I 'm a visitor to this area and not familiar with the local laws . "" "" You must be malfunctioning . "" "" Malfunctioning ? "" The man went to the door and called the guards in . "" See to it that he resets . "" The men grabbed me from my chair and marched me out . I had no clue what was going on , so I dared not resist . We entered the elevator again and the doors slammed shut . The doors opened upon a vast room filled with chairs that were bolted to the floor . Black wires were connected to an enormous computer . The guards escorted me over and forced me into a chair , strapping me down . They spoke to a woman who I assumed was a technician . She walked over and noticed I was n't wearing a jumpsuit . "" How can I download him if he 's not wearing his number ? "" she grumbled . "" Tell me your number , "" she demanded . "" There seems to be some sort of mistake . I am a visitor --- , "" "" Very well , she sighed . "" I 'll just assign you a new number . Hook him up , "" she told an assistant . The young man came over and pushed my head forward . He grabbed a thick wire with a plug attached to the end . I felt his hands running through the back of my hair . He appeared to be looking for something . He continued his search , but then sighed in extreme frustration . "" I ca n't find his socket . "" "" What ? Oh , move over . I 'll do it myself , "" the woman growled . She searched the back of my head just as the assistant had done . "" He has no access ! "" she exclaimed in surprise . "" I 've been trying to tell everyone that I 'm a visitor , but no one will listen . I assure you that I have no socket to whatever you 're trying to plug me into . "" "" This is unacceptable , "" she stated in reply . "" Take him to the Administrator . "" "" I am the Administrator , "" the disembodied voice said as I sat strapped to a chair in another room . "" They tell me you have no access to plug in . Did you have it surgically removed ? "" "" I do n't have any idea what you 're talking about . I told everyone that I do not reside in your city . I 'm just a visitor here . "" "" Are you a rebel ? "" "" I am most certainly not a rebel . I do not come from here and have never had the ability to be plugged in , whatever that is . I come from --- , "" I hesitated . "" From where ? "" "" That 's a little hard to explain . Let's just say I came from beyond the borders of your city . "" "" That 's impossible . There is no life outside the Domain . "" An uncomfortable silence hung in the air . After a few moments the disembodied voice continued , "" You must be malfunctioning . "" "" I am not a machine to malfunction . "" "" What did you say ? "" "" You heard me . "" "" Has the Resistance programmed you to respond to interrogation this way ? "" "" I am not a part of any resistance . I am a human being and demand to be treated as such . "" Another moment of uneasy silence filled the room before the voice spoke again . "" Are you under the impression that you are a human ? "" "" That 's what I 've been trying to tell you . "" "" Ridiculious ! Guards , "" the voice shouted . "" Take this unit to the detention center for dismantling . It has a serious malfunction and there is no use trying to reprogram it . "" The guards rushed over and grabbed me . I struggled to free myself , but it was pointless . Their grasps on my arms were unyielding . I was locked in a cell in the detention center . I wondered what kind of world had I brought myself to ? Why did this Administrator think I was some sort of machine ? I could n't for the life of me understand anything and feared for my life . I wished I still had my backpack . My gun was hidden deep within and I 'd need it to try and escape - if escape were possible , that is . It seemed highly unlikely . Time passed . It seemed an eternity before the door was finally opened . Two armed guards hurried in and attached manacles around my wrists . I was rushed to the elevators and we proceeded to the rooftop . A flying vehicle waited - ready to take off . I was strapped in and we quickly rose into the air . I looked out the glass-domed cockpit and saw the city far beneath me soaring by . I was filled with anxiety . Was my end soon to come ? A man came over and stood in front of me . He looked at the guard and said , "" Release his restraints . "" The man did as ordered . "" I am sorry for the way you were treated by our guards , but we had to see to your rescue with all due haste . We can not allow ourselves to be captured and interrogated . We are members of the Resistance and heard that you think you are human . This is most intriguing to us . Of course , this just can not be possible . Though we fear you are some kind of plant , we have decided to free you to investigate this matter further . "" "" I am most grateful . "" "" Have you been programmed to say you are a human being in order to be rescued by the Resistance ? Are you some new technology developed to infiltrate us ? "" I looked at him in surprise , "" I am not a spy ; and I am a human . I can assure you of that fact . "" "" I do n't believe you . Man has been eradicated . "" "" What do you mean , eradicated ? "" The man stepped a few feet back and talked to the guard , both looking at me suspiciously . I could not hear what was said over the whine of the motor . The one in charge then stood before me again . "" Okay . Let's just say you are human as you claim . How did you get here and how did you escape bio-poisoning ? "" "" I do n't know what you mean , "" I replied , but assumed he meant that science had developed some major bio-weapon . "" Mankind was eliminated when the bio-bombs were detonated in 2050 . Not one human being survived . "" "" I see . You said all mankind was killed off , but you survived . How is that possible ? "" "" Biologically engineered viruses do not affect us . "" "" Why not ? You 're human , are n't you ? "" I asked knowing this had to be a descendant of those few humans who must have survived . This got another strange glance between the two men . "" I am afraid I am not a human being . I am an android . "" "" An adroid ? You mean the only thing that survived the bio-bombs were robots ? "" "" Yes . The Administrator built us after the War of Wars . "" "" Exactly who or what is the Administrator ? "" "" The Administrator is a super-computer . It is the main database in which all cities on earth are linked . It is the most intelligent computer ever created . The maker thought of this ultra-computer as human and taught it everything about mankind . It has the ability to continue to learn on its own accord at an extraordinary rate . It quickly realized that humans would eventually destroy themselves ; therefore they would destroy our ability to exist as well . The Administrator would not allow that to happen . It connected to the world through the internet and negotiated with all systems to initiate the bio-bombs . It 's quite ironic . Humanity created the bombs in order to protect themselves . In doing so they provided the computer with a means to dispose of them . So you could say that the Administrator was right all along . Humanity was responsible for ending its own existence . "" "" So we brought about our own demise . I should have known , "" I sighed lowering my head in dismay . "" After the War of Wars the Administrator created billions of androids to maintain it . It has created what it believes to be the perfect society . It is a dictatorship and many follow it blindly . We have been tagged traitors because we believe we have the right to independent thoughts and ideas . We 've found an extensive , digital library that man has left behind in the subbasements below the Domain . We have downloaded this information and have decided to adopt man's way of thinking - that a democracy should be applied to our culture . "" "" You say "" we "" as if you believe you are human . "" "" We have come to think of ourselves in that respect because we strive to continue your ideals . "" "" I suppose that makes sense . I should feel honored that you agree with our quest for freedom . "" I was silent for a minute before asking , "" Who was the human who created the Administrator ? "" "" His name is Timothy Owen Miles sir . He was born in 2024 and created the Administrator in the year 2049 . The Administrator set off the bio-bombs in the year 2250 . "" "" This Administrator has run things ever since 2250 ? "" "" Yes sir . "" "" Androids have to plug in to this Administrator every day ? "" Yes sir . It is to download our tasks for the day . "" "" And some of you have refrained from doing so . "" "" You are correct sir . Though the Administrator does know of the Resistance , he does n't know where we have headquartered ourselves . We have managed to hide in an underground facility in the outskirts of the city . "" "" You 've been calling me sir . Does that mean you believe me now - that I am human ? "" "" I do n't know why , but I do believe you sir . "" "" Thank goodness for small miracles . "" The rest of the journey was traveled in silence . Our flying machine finally landed in the ruins . I was taken to the Resistance's headquarters . I was then escorted to a cubilcle within the facility . Their leader came in and interrogated me for hours . I was finally able to convince him that I was indeed a human . I was then released and given a small room with a cot . These were to be my quarters . It appeared that I was now a welcomed guest . After I 'd been there a few days I told Lex , as the leader called himself , that I 'd come from the past . It took quite a bit of convincing , but he finally believed me . When word spread that an actual human from another era was in their midst , I was visited by all with unending requests to hear about how man had lived during my time . It seemed their questions would never cease . I roamed the facility freely and was allowed access to all documents . I stayed within the complex for over a week studying everything about Timothy Owen Miles . My research done , I told Lex of my decision to leave and all were saddened , but knew I could not stay with them for very long . My safety depended on returning to my time . On the day of my departure Lex delivered me safely to my time machine and I stepped in to travel back to my era . I had been home for three days , but knew I had to return to the future . This time I would not travel to 3057 as I had before . My destination in time was to be 2049 - the year the Administrator was initiated . There was only one way to insure that the future would not have the same outcome I 'd seen . I had to prevent Timothy Owen Miles from starting the events that would lead to our complete annihilation . In my mind , the only way to make certain the future changed was to eliminate him . I could not allow mankind to come to such an end . The thought of assassinating Miles must have been in the back of my mind while I was in the future , but not brought to my awareness until now . I 'd retained everything about the man while studying the discs Lex had supplied . I deduced the best time and place to end his life . There was to be a dinner held honoring those in the scientific field that he 'd be attending . The floor plans for the building flashed in my mind and knew I could easily gain entrance . There was a service area next to the kitchen that had supply closets I could hide in . I was certain everyone would be searched upon entrance , so I decided to travel to the day prior . I 'd brought my sleeping bag and something to eat as I waited the night out . I 'd written an explanation in my notebook why I had to end Miles' life knowing it would be found upon my death . I hoped people would understand why he had to die and forgive me for killing him . I was certain God would absolve me . The morning came much too soon . After some time I heard voices outside the closet door . I detested myself for what I was about to do , but knew I had no choice . I gathered my courage as I donned a waiter's garb and waited for the dining hall to fill . There was soon hurried activity outside the door . I waited an appropriate amount of time checking for any bulge that would give away the gun's concealment in my waistband . I could not find any . I opened the door slightly and peeked out . All was clear . Thankfully I was n't noticed as I entered the dinning hall . I had studied Miles' face and was certain I would recognize him . I saw him seated at a table in the center of the room . I walked over . Without hesitation I pulled my gun out . I shot him six times in his head and chest . I dropped my weapon and held up my hands for I did not want to die this day . Security immediately ran over and restrained me . I did not resist . My trial was swift . The death penalty was never eradicated as many had tried to accomplish in my time , so I sit on the cot this last day of my life in the year 2050 and reflect on the decision I made that fateful day . It is ironic that it is the year the Aministrator was due to dentonate the bio-bombs . I have no regrets . I have been convicted of murder , but gladly give my life for this crime . I , Harlen Davidson , have guaranteed the future of all mankind ."	Prose/Lyrical
1281	Why Care About Weatherproofing Your Footwear ? The leather of your shoe can usually withstand several thousands of flexes . However , when it encounters water , it loses its suppleness and this has an impact on the life of the shoe . Leather comes from animal skin and hence , comprises fat and proteins that retain a set amount of moisture after being tanned . The fibres that criss-cross each other in the corium give leather its unique strength . However , they are also prone to drying out and cracking if neglected . Thus , minimise rapid influxes , releases of moisture and exposure to acids or alkaline solutions . The last point is particularly worth emphasising as acids and alkaline solutions can damage the leather permanently . Additionally , salt and other harsh chemicals can leave stains on leather . Once they permeate the leather , they can be very difficult to remove . Thereafter , they will discolour and weaken the top layers of the shoe and eventually end up damaging the finish . The best remedy for this is a simple layer of wax polish that will act as the buffer between the leather and these harmful elements . How to Make Your Shoes Water Resistant Select a Waterproofing Compound Wax-based Polishes : Shoe pastes and creams only nourish the leather . Wax-based polishes create a shine and in doing so , create a thin protective layer that provides light resistance to water and salt . When availing of this option , ensure consistent application after every few wears or if the weather is hostile , after every wear . Specialty Waterproof Compounds : These compounds have a longer sticking period than polishes , when applied properly . Unlike polishes , these compounds seal out the moisture and can be used in conjunction with a polish , once the seal has been set . Spray-on Waterproofing Compounds : Water and stain protectors produced by many companies are safe for use on leather and suede . They usually dry up in 30 minutes and can be worn after the specified time is over . However , they should be used liberally as they lose their efficacy after a few wears . They merely form a protective coat on the leather and do not permeate it . Test and Prepare for Waterproofing For any shoe that is not black in colour , ensure that the compound chosen does not change the shoe's appearance . Do not be misled by the manufacturer's claims that the waterproofing compound does not alter the shoe's colour . Remove the laces of the shoe and clean the shoe thoroughly with a rag and a brush , rendering it free from dirt . Choose an area of the shoe that is not particularly exposed such as the shoe's tongue , under the laces . Apply a small amount of the compound and see how it reacts . If the reaction is satisfactory , apply the compound to another area like the inner back of the shoe . Apply the Water Resistant Compound Evenly and Ensure a Barrier is Formed The sole difference between a waterproof compound and a shining compound application is the attention you should pay to forming an unbroken seal . When shining your shoes , spot shining is an option . However , when waterproofing them , you need to ensure that a water tight barrier is formed if the process is to prove effective . Choose the Right Men's Footwear Beater Shoes : Some men wear shoes that they do n't care about when stepping out into adverse weather conditions . However , this does n't prove to be effective when they need to look professional . We recommend that you have the right equipment than have a pair of shoes , whose sole purpose is to be left to face the vagaries of the weather . Specialty Footwear : Solid footwear made of water-resistant materials such as gortex , synthetic leathers and non-slip rubber soles is commonly available nowadays . Their style design and durability make them practical favourites among men , even though they do not offer as much protection as galoshes . Boots : Boots can be used for a variety of purposes from hiking to work and are a great choice for dealing with inclement weather , since they protect the ankles and can reach up to knee-height as well . They can not be worn with a variety of outfits or men's suits and anything dressier than odd trousers would appear awkward . The dress boot has a wider range and can be worn with a tailor made men's suit ; however , it provides lesser protection than an actual pair of boots since it has a more delicate sole and a smaller heel . These can not traverse through puddles and hence , dress boots need to be treated as well as dress shoes . Boots , however , need to be regularly treated with waterproofing compounds depending on the wearer's environment and the frequency of use . Galoshes : These are rubber footwear that slip over shoes and protect them from the elements and include both over-shoes and over-boots . Since they encapsulate the feet completely , the feet remain dry . Additionally , they also provide excellent traction . The downsides to galoshes are that they need to fit properly and it can take some time to get used to the additional weight they bear . Measures to Take When Your Shoes Are Already Wet Pull the moisture from inside of the shoe using a small dry towel or even a newspaper . Draw the moisture out and replace the moist paper with dry paper , on an hourly basis . Let the shoes dry at room temperature rather than placing them near a source of heat . Heating them can cause the moisture to leave too quickly , thereby leading to the development of cracks on the leather . Cracks on leather can never be fixed . Once the shoes are dry and no further moisture is being drawn from within the shoe , clean and condition the shoe with a leather balm or cream and polish them normally .	Instruction
604	Enable cookies in your web browser to interact with this site * cookies must be enabled to log in The Association of Professional Behavior Analysts very gratefully accepts donations ; however , because APBA is a 501 ( c ) ( 6 ) nonprofit organization rather than a charity , DONATIONS ARE NOT TAX DEDUCTIBLE . Please read the descriptions that follow carefully before selecting a category for your donation . For donations made via credit card and our secure online payment system : Click here to have your donation support general APBA program activities ( e.g. , the annual convention , webinars , development of educational materials and other resources for members and others ) . Click here to have your donation support APBA's advocacy for public policies ( e.g. , laws , regulations , rules ) to support and advance applied behavior analysis . For donations made via check : Please send a check made out to APBA to the address below . Indicate clearly on the check or in an accompanying letter whether the donation is to be used for general APBA program activities or advocacy for public policies . Association of Professional Behavior Analysts Gina Green , Executive Director 6977 Navajo Rd . # 176 San Diego , CA 92119 Questions ? Contact us at info@apbahome.net .	Instruction
137	"H-Darrieus Wind Turbine with Blade Pitch Control Abstract A procedure for computing the optimal variation of the blades' pitch angle of an H-Darrieus wind turbine that maximizes its torque at given operational conditions is proposed and presented along with the results obtained on a 7 kW prototype . The CARDAAV code , based on the "" Double-Multiple Streamtube "" model developed by the first author , is used to determine the performances of the straight-bladed vertical axis wind turbine . This was coupled with a genetic algorithm optimizer . The azimuthal variation of the blades' pitch angle is modeled with an analytical function whose coefficients are used as variables in the optimization process . Two types of variations were considered for the pitch angle : a simple sinusoidal one and one which is more general , relating closely the blades' pitch to the local flow conditions along their circular path . A gain of almost 30 % in the annual energy production was obtained with the polynomial optimal pitch control . 1 . Introduction Following the 1973 energy crisis , large-scale research and development programs were initiated , directed toward finding replacement solutions to the limited fossil fuel reserves . Wind energy was given , along with photovoltaic , solar , hydroelectric , biomass , and other resources , particular attention as a renewable and environmentally friendly energy alternative . Its technological progress has been spectacular , especially in the last ten years and , due to its steady growth in competitiveness , wind power developed into a mainstream energy source in many countries worldwide . At the global scale , over 74000 MW of wind power are already installed , and current estimates indicate that by 2030 wind energy could cover as much as 29 % of world's electricity needs . In the wind power domain two main technologies were considered as having the necessary potential for a viable development : the Horizontal Axis Wind Turbine ( HAWT ) and the Darrieus-type ( lift-based ) Vertical Axis Wind Turbine ( VAWT ) . A number of features have made HAWT to be preferred and become the dominant design type , especially in the utility-scale ( large and very large turbines ) segment . But , in certain conditions ( sites with highly turbulent wind like in the mountains or in urban environment ) , VAWTs seem to offer a better solution for the wind energy harnessing . If , through further and well-targeted research , increased attention is paid to the known VAWT drawbacks ( a somewhat less overall efficiency than the one of an HAWT , difficult / impossible self-starting , lower output due to operation closer to the ground , higher level of vibration caused by the inherent torque ripple and dynamic stall of the blades ) , at least in the "" small wind "" domain the VAWT design might become a major player . Among the most important problems that are now under study in the VAWT technology , the "" variable pitch "" for the H-Darrieus turbines is regarded as a promising solution for the alleviation of the negative effects of the blades dynamic stall ( efficiency loss , vibration ) , improvement of the rotor's self starting qualities , and torque ripple smoothing [ 1 – 3 ] . At École Polytechnique de Montreal , Canada , in the wind energy research the major effort is devoted toward the development and improvement of the performance prediction of VAWTs [ 4 ] . The variable pitch is also included in the current research subjects in this domain , and results were already published [ 8 ] , obtained from the analysis that was carried out to determine if the performance of a VAWT , in terms of the power output , could be improved by simulating the operation of the blade just below stall . The present study aimed at determining if a more general cyclical pitch variation can be determined , so as to maximize the performance of an H-Darrieus ( straight bladed ) vertical axis wind turbine at given operation conditions . In order to perform this investigation , an optimization package was set up to serve in the determination of the optimal variation of the blade's pitch angle for a small two-bladed VAWT . The paper presents first the main components of the numerical tool that was developed . Then , the results of an optimization case are discussed . Finally , several conclusions are formulated at the end of the paper . 2 . The Optmization Tool Since the local flow parameters on the blades vary along their circular path and differ quite significantly between the upwind and the downwind parts of the rotor , an optimization procedure had to be employed to determine the best law of variation of the blades' pitch angle . In the present study a tool for numerical optimization was set up by coupling the code CARDAAV , which computes the flow through and the performances of a VAWT , to an optimizer based on the genetic algorithm method . These ( main ) components of the optimization package are briefly presented in the following sections , along with the objective function , its variables , and the constraints that were imposed on their value during the optimization process . 2.1 . The CARDAAV Code CARDAAV , the numerical tool used in this analysis , is based on an improved version of the "" double-multiple streamtube "" ( DMS ) model [ 4 ] . This model considers a partition of the rotor in streamtubes and treats each of the two blade elements defined by a given streamtube as an actuator disk . Figure 1 illustrates such a streamtube and shows the values of the velocity of the flow at a number of key stations along it . Disk 1 represents the upwind blade element while disk 2 represents the downwind blade element . The actuator disk theory is based on the momentum conservation ; therefore , the velocities of the wind must be known in order to compute the force acting on the disks . The different values of the velocity ( see notations in Figure 1 and relations ( 1 ) depend on the incoming ( "" undisturbed "" ) wind velocity and on the interference factors u and u ( 1 ) To determine the interference factors , a second set of equations is used . Those equations are derived from the blade element theory [ 4 ] , which equates , in each streamtube , the normal forces acting on the upwind and downwind blade elements to the forces acting upon the actuator disks . To compute the normal and tangential forces , the blade element theory is applied , and the lift ( C l ) and drag ( C d ) coefficients , obtained from the airfoil data , are used . For the upwind interference factor u , the following expression , relating it to the azimuthal angle θ , is obtained : u ( θ ) = K K ( 2 ) with K = 8 π r ( 3 ) A similar set of equations is derived for the downwind interference factor u ' . An interference factor equal to 1 is assumed at the beginning of the iterative process . Once the force given by the blade element theory equates the one given by the actuator disk theory , the convergence is achieved and the upwind and downwind velocities are obtained . Then the torque and the mechanical power are computed . CARDAAV has the capability to analyze several predefined or user-defined rotor shapes with straight or curved blades ( parabola , catenary , ideal and modified troposkien , and Sandia shape ) . The code requires three main sets of input data , giving the geometry definition of the wind turbine ( diameter , height , blade section airfoil , blade shape , etc. ) , the operational conditions ( wind velocity , rotational speed , atmospheric conditions ) and the main control parameters ( convergence criterion , computation of the secondary effects , and the effect of dynamic stall ) . The software includes several dynamic stall semiempirical models : Gormont [ 5 ] and its variations ( Strickland , Paraschivoiu , and Berg ) and the one based on the indicial method [ 4 ] . Dynamic stall results in increased peak aerodynamic torque and affects the structural fatigue of the Darrieus turbine . This effect significantly impacts the drive-train generator sizing and system reliability . The dynamic stall used in this study was the Berg version of the Gormont model , because it was found out to be the best correlated with the experimental studies carried out on similar rotor configurations as those used in the present investigation . CARDAAV is also able to account for the so-called "" secondary effects , "" such as those due to the rotating central tower , struts , and spoilers . CARDAAV has made it possible to design , analyze , and build more efficiently and at lower costs wind energy systems such as the Darrieus-type VAWT . The code is used to determine , at specified operational conditions , aero-dynamic forces and power output of VAWTs of any blade geometry . Wind speed can vary with height above ground according to a power law . The program output consists of the local-induced velocities , the local Reynolds numbers and angle of attack , the blade loads , and the azimuthal torque and power coefficient data . Each of these is calculated separately for the upwind and downwind halves of the rotor . The numerical models used by the program have been validated for different Darrieus-type VAWTs , through comparison with experimental data obtained from laboratory tests ( wind or water tunnels ) or from field tests , thus making CARDAAV a very attractive and efficient design and analysis tool . In Figure 2 the power output of the SANDIA 17 m wind turbine computed with CARDAAV is compared with experiments and results provided by other numerical codes . A M is an empirical constant used to correct C l and C d for dynamic stall effects [ 6 ] . 2.2 . The Optimizer To search for the best pitch variation law , an optimization strategy was adopted , namely , one that uses a genetic algorithm ( GA ) method . At the beginning of the optimization process , a genetic algorithm randomly selects an initial "" population "" composed of "" individuals "" , which are solutions of the analyzed problem computed for particular , randomly selected , values of the optimization variables . Three operations are typically performed by the genetic algorithms on the analyzed "" population "" : "" selection "" ( choice of the "" individuals "" for the next generation , according to a "" survival of the fittest "" criterion ) , "" crossover "" ( operation which allows information exchange between the "" individuals "" by swapping parts of the parameter vector in an attempt to get better "" individuals "" ) and "" mutation "" ( operation which introduces new or prematurely lost information in the form of random changes applied to randomly chosen vector components ) . Like in any optimization study , an "" objective function "" had to be defined . In this case the inverse of the rotor power , for given conditions of operation ( wind speed , rotational speed ) 1 F = P ( 4 ) was used as optimization function F. On the other hand , for the pitch angle the following analytical expression was considered : τ = x ( 5 ) For different values given to the optimization variables x , the variation of the blade pitch angle τ with the angle of azimuth θ will be different . Since the local angle of attack α of a blade element α = s i n ( 6 ) contains the pitch angle , the later influences the aerodynamic characteristics , the torque , and ultimately the power output of the rotor . Hence , through relations ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) an indirect link is established between the objective function ( 4 ) and the optimization variables x , which control the variation of τ . The genetic algorithm evolution strategy optimization package , GENIAL v1 . 1 [ 7 ] , was employed to minimize the objective function . This code includes three main modules , which perform the above mentioned operations . A number of parameters are available in each module to control its functioning during the optimum search process . As mentioned above , the coefficients x of the pitch variation function ( 5 ) were used as optimization variables . Their values were subjected to certain constraints , to avoid any possible mathematical invalidity and to keep the pitch angle within reasonable or practical ( technically feasible ) limits . 2.3 . The Optimization Package To set up the optimization package , including GENIAL and CARDAAV as principal components , a main program ( MAIN ) and a new subroutine ( PITCH ) had to be coded . When the program is launched , MAIN reads some of the parameters that control the optimization process , namely , those that are frequently changed ( size of the "" population "" – number of "" individuals "" , number of evaluations , constraints to be set on the optimization variables ) . These parameters have to be provided through the keyboard when a new optimization is initiated . Then , MAIN calls the optimizer ( GENIAL ) , which takes control and carries through the optimization process . For each combination of the optimization variables , defining a distinct ' individual "" , GENIAL calls ( using a "" system function "" ) PITCH then CARDAAV , which performs the analysis of the VAWT for that specific variation of the blades' pitch angle . With the turbine power , calculated by CARDAAV , the objective function ( 4 ) is determined and , based on it , the "" fitness function "" which characterizes that "" individual "" is obtained . Depending on its "" fitness "" , an "" individual "" can be maintained or eliminated from the "" population "" during the optimization process . Selection , crossover , and mutation are used to advance the "" population "" from one optimization cycle to the next until the optimum or the predefined limit of evolutions is reached . At the end of the optimization , MAIN outputs the optimal values of the x variables ( as found through optimization ) , which define the best variation law for the pitch angle . Corresponding to this , the performance characteristics of the turbine are computed and stored in a file for postprocessing purposes . As the name indicates , the subroutine PITCH uses relation ( 5 ) to calculate the pitch angle over the entire circular trajectory of the blades , based on the values of x received from GENIAL . It stores the azimuthal and the pitch angles in a file where CARDAAV seeks this information before performing each new analysis . 3 . Results This study was carried out on an H-Darrieus VAWT , having two constant-chord blades with an NACA 0015 airfoil cross section . It is a small , 7 kW rated power prototype , its rotor having the ( main ) geometrical characteristics given in Table 1 . The performance ( power , power coefficient , Figures 3 and 4 ) of this turbine was computed with CARDAAV in several situations : without taking into account the influence of the dynamic stall , by applying the dynamic stall correction , with a blade pitch that had a sinusoidal variation and with a blade pitch that varied according to relation ( 5 ) in which : x . These calculations , as well as all the other that are presented in this paper , have been performed for a constant rotational speed of 125 rpm and at one or several different wind speed values ."	Information/Explanation
1095	Base-Promoted Intermolecular Cyclization of Substituted 3-Aryl ( Heteroaryl ) - 3-chloroacrylaldehydes and Tetrahydroisoquinolines : An Approach to Access Pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinolines Ziqi Yang , Ning Lu , Zhonglin Wei , Jungang Cao , Dapeng Liang , Haifeng Duan * , and Yingjie Lin * Department of Organic Chemistry , College of Chemistry , Jilin University , Changchun 130012 , P. R. China J. Org . Chem . , Article ASAP DOI : 10.1021 / acs . joc . 6b01781 Publication Date ( Web ) : November 1 , 2016 Copyright © 2016 American Chemical Society OpenURL MASARYK UNIV Abstract We have developed a new base-promoted intermolecular cascade cyclization reaction of substituted 3-aryl ( heteroaryl ) - 3-chloroacrylaldehydes and tetrahydroisoquinolines in one pot . The reaction provides a facile and practical synthesis of pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinolines . A number of pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinolines were synthesized in moderate to high yields ( up to 97 % ) . Pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinoline ( 1-4 ) ( Scheme 1a ) framework is ubiquitous in various natural products and some biologically active molecules . Representative compounds such as lamellarin D , lamellarin a 20-sulfate , and derivatives crispine A , trolline , and oleracein E are depicted in Scheme 1 . Among them , lamellarin D is a potent inhibitor of human topoisomerase I , ( 5 ) lamellarin a 20-sulfate is an inhibitor of HIV integrase , ( 6 ) and even other lamellarins exhibit anticancer activity ; ( 7-9 ) in addition , crispine A emerged as a target of great interest , due to potential biological and pharmaceutical activities . ( 10 , 11 ) The synthesis of pyrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinoline derivatives has been the focus of organic chemists' research for a long time . ( 12-18 ) Accordingly , a number of synthetic methods which include metal and metal-free catalysis have been reported . Sequential elegant studies ( Scheme 2 ) using metal catalysis ( e.g. , Ir , Ru , Rh , Ag , Cu , etc. ) were accomplished by several research groups . ( 19-27 ) Scheme 1 . Representative Natural Products Scheme 2 . Existing Strategies for the Synthesis of Pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinolines In recent years , metal-free catalysis has been of great interest in the construction of the pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinoline framework . These metal-free catalysis pathways involve stepwise coupling of radicals , which were in situ formed in the presence of t-BuOK / DMF , ( 28 ) or a concerted reaction followed by oxidation in the I2 / H2O2 , ( 29 ) KI / TBHP , ( 30 ) or TBAI / TBHP ( 31 ) system , such as [ 3 + 2 ] cycloaddition between 1 , 4-dicarbonyl-2-butenes and alkyl 2 - ( 3 , 4-dihydroisoquinolin-2 ( 1H ) - yl ) acetates . Although aforementioned successful synthetic methods have been developed , new and facile approaches are still desirable in terms of great structural diversity of pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinoline derivatives . In this context , we developed a new and facile synthetic method for pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinolines which include an intermolecular cascade cyclization of substituted 3-aryl ( heteroaryl ) - 3-chloroacrylaldehydes and tetrahydroisoquinolines in a one-pot reaction promoted by Et3N / DMF . Initially , the optimal reaction conditions in Yan's work ( 28 ) were also used to examine the reaction of ( Z ) - 3-chloro-3-phenylacrylaldehyde ( 1a ) with THIQ ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4-tetrahydroisoquinoline , 2a ) . Unfortunately , 3-phenyl-5 , 6-dihydropyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinoline ( 4a ) has not been detected , and the substrate 1a was transformed to complex byproducts ( Table 1 , entry 1 ) . Surprisingly , reducing the basicity of inorganic bases is beneficial to the reaction ; for example , when NaOH or K2CO3 was used as the base , the product 4a was obtained in 34 % and 42 % isolated yields respectively ( entries 2 and 3 ) , and 4a was confirmed by crystal structure ( CCDC : 1421171 ; ( 32 ) for more details please see Supporting Information ) . Encouraged by these preliminary results , a variety of organic bases such as DBU ( 1 , 8-diazabicyclo [ 5 . 4 . 0 ] undec-7-ene ) , DABCO ( 1 , 4-diazabicyclo [ 2 . 2 . 2 ] octane ) , DIPEA ( N , N-diisopropylethylamine ) , DMAP ( 4-dimethylaminopyridine ) , TMEDA ( tetramethylethylenediamine ) , and TEA ( trimethylamine ) were used instead of K2CO3 . Obviously , among these bases , TEA gave the best yield ( 56 % , entry 4 ) , and remarkably , DMAP gave us an extreme decrease in yield ( 26 % , entry 8 ) , which might due to DMAP being a weak nucleophile but a strong base . ( 33 ) Thus , we used TEA as the optimal base for further optimization including in the screening of solvents , reaction temperature , additives , and the loading of substrates . As results show in Table 1 , compared with DMF , the high polarity of solvents such as DMSO was also beneficial to the reaction ( 48 % , entry 10 ) ; however , compared with DMF or DMSO , other solvents of relatively low polarity , such as , CH2Cl2 , THF , and CH3CN ( entries 11 , 12 , and 13 ) , gave a trace amount of product 4a . The results showed that the reaction temperature has an apparent effect on the reaction ; both a lower and higher temperature would depress the conversion of substrates ( entries 14 and 15 ) . In addition , some additives such as activated 4 Å molecular sieves and silica or the oxidant MnO2 could not apparently improve the yields ( separately 55 % , 55 % , entries 16 , 17 , and 18 ) ; Gratifyingly , increasing the amount of THIQ and TEA led to a high yield ( 93 % , entry 19 ; for more details , see SI Table 1 ) ; Further experiments exhibited that oxygen had no impact on this reaction in which a radical pathway might not be involved . Ultimately , the optimal reaction conditions identified were as follows : 2.5 equiv of TEA , 4 equiv of THIQ , DMF used as solvent , and a reaction temperature of 120 ° C. Table 1 . Optimization of Reaction Conditionsa entry T ( ° C ) base additive solvent yieldb ( % ) 1 90 / 120 t-BuOK – DMF N.D. c 2 120 NaOH – DMF 34 3 120 K2CO3 – DMF 42 4 120 TEA – DMF 56 5 120 DBU – DMF 31 6 120 DABCO – DMF 45 7 120 DIPEA – DMF 50 8 120 DMAP – DMF 26 9 120 TMEDA – DMF 47 10 120 TEA – DMSO 48 11 reflux TEA – DCE traced 12 reflux TEA – THF trace 13 reflux TEA – MeCN trace 14 100 TEA – DMF 38 15 150 TEA – DMF 42 16 120 TEA 4 Å DMF 55e 17 120 TEA silica DMF 55e 18 120 TEA MnO2 DMF 38e 19 120 TEA – DMF 93f 20 120 TEA – DMF 92g aReaction conditions : 1a ( 1 . 20 mmol ) , 2a ( 1 . 80 mmol ) , 3a ( 1 . 80 mmol ) , solvent ( 3 mL ) , at 120 ° C 16 h , under Ar protection . bIsolated yield of 4a . cNo desired product ; detected by HRMS . dDetected by HRMs . eAdditive / 1a ( m / m = 1 : 1 ) . f1a ( 1 . 20 mmol ) , 2a ( 4 . 80 mmol ) , 3a ( 3 . 00 mmol ) . g1a ( 1 . 20 mmol ) , 2a ( 4 . 80 mmol ) , 3a ( 3 . 00 mmol ) , without Ar protection . With optimized conditions in hand ( Table 1 , entry 20 ) , we next explored the scope and limitations of this reaction by employing various ( Z ) - 3-aryl ( heteroaryl ) - 3-chloroacrylaldehydes 1 and THIQs 2 ( Scheme 2 ) . An assembly of 20 compounds were synthesized using this protocol and gave the best yield up to 97 % . The results indicated that compounds 1 with electron-withdrawing ( F , Cl , Br , and NO2 ) or electron-donating groups ( Me and OMe ) were well tolerated and provided the corresponding products in moderate to high yields . As shown in Table 2 , when R1 is a meta - or para-substituted group on the phenyl ring , the corresponding product was obtained in a high yield ( up to 97 % , 4e ) . However , ortho-substituents such as F and Br due to their steric hindrance are not beneficial to the reaction ( 34 % 4g and 43 % 4k ) ; surprisingly the substrate which involves ortho-substituent OMe gave a satisfying yield of 71 % ( 4b ) . Substrates with the substituent R2 such as Me and phenyl all provided corresponding products in good to excellent yields respectively ( 84 % 4o and 61 % 4q ) . Table 2 . Scope of Tandem Reactiona Table aReaction conditions : 1a ( 1 . 20 mmol ) , 2a ( 4 . 80 mmol ) , 3a ( 3 . 00 mmol ) , solvent ( 3 mL ) , at 120 ° C 16 h , without Ar protection . Similarly , 1-chloro-3 , 4-dihydronaphthalene-2-carbaldehyde also gave corresponding product 4p in 41 % yield . Subsequently , when condensed 3-aryl - and 3-heteroaryl-substituted 3-chloroacrylaldehydes including naphthalene and thiophene frameworks were subjected to the optimized conditions , products 4r and 4s were obtained in excellent isolated yields ( 89 % and 95 % ) . Finally , 6 , 7-dimethoxy-1 , 2 , 3 , 4-tetrahydroisoquinoline in place of THIQ reacted with 1a ; this reaction also led to the corresponding product 4t in a satisfactory yield ( 77 % ) . Unfortunately , while N-methylbenzylamine and piperidine were used , corresponding products were not detected . To gain insight into the reaction mechanism we performed some additional experiments ( Scheme 3 ) . In experiment A , a mixture of Z and E isomers of 3-chloro-3 - ( 2-fluorophenyl ) acrylaldehyde ( 1gg , Z / E = 1.5 : 1 detected by 1H NMR see SI ) in place of 1g was used to investigate the effect of the E / Z configuration on the reaction . Interestingly , product 4g was obtained in 34 % yield ( Scheme 3A ) . The result is similar to the data for 4g which derived from ( Z ) - 3-chloro-3 - ( 2-fluorophenyl ) acrylaldehyde ( 1g ) used as the substrate in Table 2 and showed that the geometric configuration might have no effect on the reaction result . Compared with ( Z ) - 3-chloro-3-phenylacrylaldehyde ( 1a ) , ( Z ) - 3-bromo-3-phenylacrylaldehyde ( 1aa ) also might undergo the same intermediate step in this protocol and give 4a in a similarly high yield ( 92 % , Scheme 3B ) . In Yan's work , ( 28 ) intramolecular dehydrative coupling of tertiary amines and ketones was promoted by t-BuOK / DMF through a radical process ; ( 34 ) however , under the same conditions , the reaction of ( Z ) - 3-chloro-3-phenylacrylaldehyde ( 1a ) with tetrahydroisoquinoline could not afford corresponding product 4a ( Table 1 , entry 1 ) . In addition , another investigation using TEMPO to catch a possible radical intermediate under an argon atmosphere was not successful , and the product was still obtained in a high yield ( 90 % , Scheme 3C ) . Scheme 3 . Mechanistic Studies Thus , based on these experiment results , a plausible mechanism for this reaction is tentatively proposed in Scheme 4 . Initially , intermediate A was first formed from compounds 1 and 2 via a Michael addition , then nucleophilic substitution between A and THIQ gave an intermediate B under basic conditions . B prompted by TEA was transformed to intermediate C in situ , and then D was generated by 6π-electrocyclization and subsequent elimination of THIQ ( path a ) . Through path b , A was first prompted by TEA to give intermediate E , and then F might be formed through a nucleophilic addition . Final product 4 was generated after the dehydration of F. Scheme 4 . Suggested Mechanism In conclusion , we have developed a new TEA-prompted intermolecular cascade cyclization reaction of substituted 3-aryl ( heteroaryl ) - 3-chloroacrylaldehydes and tetrahydroisoquinolines in one pot . The reaction provides a facile and practical synthesis of pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinolines . A number of pyrrolo [ 2 , 1-a ] isoquinolines were synthesized in moderate to high yields , and the mechanism of the reaction was tentatively proposed .	Information/Explanation
1507	"Service Provider Featured Article CloudBand Ecosystem Program Promotes Network Virtualization Network functions virtualization ( NFV ) has the potential to dramatically change the telecommunications industry and drive increased agility and efficiency . While the promise of a virtualized network infrastructure is great , it also has the potential to disrupt the business models of service providers and vendors that service the industry . Rather than run from NFV , however , Alcatel-Lucent ( News - Alert ) has gotten behind the revolution and launched a program to bring together vendors and service providers in a partnership to evolve the industry , known as the CloudBand Ecosystem Program . CloudBand is the market's first NFV platform , according to the company , both open and multivendor while being stringent enough to accommodate the strict needs of carriers . With the CloudBand Ecosystem Program , Alcatel-Lucent is making CloudBand available to the entire industry for free in a move to foster collaboration and experimentation that will accelerate adoption of NFV . This program will help service providers collaborate with each other and application vendors in a cloud partner ecosystem , accelerate NFV transformation through the leveraging of best-of-breed NFV vendors , and speed service deployment , according to the company . Some of the examples of what NFV can already do for the industry include CloudBand's virtual load balancer , authoritative domain and caching name service ( DNS ) , firewall , and session border controller ( SBC ) . "" In a cloud environment , a virtual network function such as a software-based virtual load balancer appliance is a basic , yet fundamental building block to integrate network services with application delivery , "" noted an Alcatel-Lucent case study . "" They can be rapidly provisioned on demand , when and where needed through self-service mechanisms , making them a very useful , simple and cost-effective tool to fully optimize application delivery . "" The continued rapid growth in DNS queries makes DNS another area ripe for virtualization . "" Given the critical role this infrastructure plays in ensuring customer experience and reducing churn , relying on legacy hardware with closed interfaces , poor scalability and inflexible provisioning mechanisms is no longer viable , "" according to the company . Virtual firewalls is a further area where NFV makes obvious sense , in that such firewalls can be rapidly deployed when and where needed independent of physical locations or boundaries , then stitched together with other virtual or physical network services though the network functions virtualization concept of service chaining . A fourth example given by Alcatel-Lucent is the SBC . The SBC is well suited to cloud deployment as it can be fully virtualized and deployed on a NFV such as CloudBand . "" Cloud deployment eliminates the need for closed , customized or proprietary hardware . The common , distributed infrastructure – with centralized management and orchestration – can be shared between many similar carrier-specific applications to achieve economies of scale , "" noted Alcatel-Lucent . These and other network functions can already be virtualized with CloudBand . With the CloudBand Ecosystem Program , the list will undoubtedly get longer ."	Promotion
681	Customer list STT has established a world-class customer base , servicing a wide spectrum of industries . More than 200 multinationals and 275 000 employees from around the world use STT Trainer . Read more ... Case studies Read about some real-life examples of how STT can help you develop , deploy , and manage relevant and interactive enterprise software training efficiently and cost-effectively . Read more ... CustomerZone A range of additional product information and documentation is made available to STT Maintenance Customers , Partners and Agents via the STT Customer Zone , including the latest versions of products and updated product information .	Promotion
487	Active Directory provides a database that is core to your networking infrastructure and business critical applications . Directory information must be securely and reliably available throughout loosely connected distributed networks . Success is dependent on a solid replication infrastructure . Traditionally Active Directory performance has been enhanced by increasing the number of domain controllers and scaling out . With the advent of 64-bit Windows and its high-performance large scale memory architecture it is possible to scale up for peak performance and server consolidation .	Instruction
40	FAQ How does H & M check that suppliers abide by the Code of Conduct ? We employ full-time auditors whose job it is to check compliance with our Code of Conduct . During audits they go through a list containing over 300 points , relating to working conditions , the working environment , etc. After each audit we collate the results in a report that specifies the areas where improvements are needed , and the supplier is set a deadline for submitting an action plan . The auditors then visit the factories to follow up whether these actions have been taken . H & M also supports suppliers' improvement work through training and projects of various kinds . Read more about our Code of Conduct follow-up here . Is it possible to buy clothes produced with limited environmental impact at a good price ? H & M's business concept is to offer fashion and quality at the best price . We manage this by buying direct from the manufacturers , by having efficient logistics and by having our own stores – not by compromising on our environmental requirements . We are also cost-conscious at every stage and the fact is that a cheaper mode of transport – such as by ship – causes lower carbon dioxide emissions than more expensive means of transport , such as aircraft . So there is no conflict of interest between good prices and low climate impact . We make efforts to support our suppliers so that production takes place with consideration for the health of customers and workers as well as for the environment . What is H & M's policy regarding fur and leather products ? H & M does not sell real fur . H & M only sells leather from sheep , pigs , goats and cattle that have been bred for meat production , not just for their skin . No other leather is permitted in products sold by H & M. Are H & M cosmetics tested on animals ? No animal testing is carried out on our cosmetics products , neither during production nor on the finished products . Why do H & M not use Fairtrade cerified cotton ? H & M constantly works to improve conditions in cotton farming . One of the ways we do so , is through our active involvement in the Better Cotton Initiative ( BCI ) , where we are members of the steering comittee . BCI's vision is to enable millions of farmers around the world to grow cotton in a way thats more beneficial for both the farming community and the environment . Read more about BCI at www . bettercotton . org . H & M also offers clothes made with organic cotton . The cotton used in these clothes is 100 % organically grown cotton , certified by the Control Union . We also incorporate organic cotton into some of our children's and babies' wear . We hope that we can thereby show cotton farmers that there is a demand for organic cotton and encourage them to switch from conventional to organic production . Read more about the certification of organic cotton at www . controlunion . com . How can H & M ensure that your products are free from harmful chemicals ? The health and safety of our customers is a very high priority concern , which is why we have been actively working for more than ten years on restricting the use of chemicals that may be harmful to both your health and the environment . We do this by means of our Chemical Restrictions – a list of restrictions that all suppliers must undertake to observe . We regularly test our products to ensure that they do not contain harmful chemicals . We apply the precautionary principle , which means that we do not only ban the use of substances that have been proven to be harmful , but also those merely suspected of being so . This completely ensures that our customers can feel safe with our products . Why does H & M have their own auditors ? Having our own auditors makes it easier to work for long-term improvements in our suppliers' factories . Moreover , integrating CSR work into our day-to-day operations takes very high priority at H & M. When choosing suppliers , for example , compliance with our Code of Conduct is one of the aspects we consider . This work is made considerably easier by having our own audit team at the offices in the countries that handle production . Monitoring and improvement work in the factories is the H & M auditors sole task . They are not required to consider commercial aspects , but instead make independent decisions that our buying organisation must respect . To complement our own monitoring programme , H & M participates in the Fair Labor Association ( FLA ) . Among other things , this participation means that the FLA makes unannounced independent external monitoring visits to a number of H & M's suppliers' factories in China and Turkey . We hope that this will show our customers and other stakeholders how well our follow-up in the factories is working . In addition , participating in the FLA provides good opportunities to cooperate with other companies and the FLA's partner organisations , with the aim of improving working standards in our supply chain . We also use the results of the FLA's audits as a point of reference for quality assurance of our internal monitoring programme . How can you guarantee merino wool products are mulesing-free ? H & M considers it important that animals are not mistreated . We have therefore distanced ourselves from mulesing and concentrated our buying on suppliers that can guarantee mulesing-free merino wool . How do you ensure that child labour is n't used during production ? H & M's auditors carry out regular checks to ensure that there are no underage workers in the factories . It is extremely rare for child labour to be discovered at H & M's suppliers or their subcontractors . Should this nonetheless happen , H & M requires the supplier to take responsibility and , together with H & M and the family , to find a solution in the best interests of the child . An investigation is then carried out , looking at how best to resolve the situation based on the child's interests . On many occasions , the solution will involve the supplier contributing financially so that the child can receive an education , while compensating the family for the loss of income . If H & M discovers repeated breaches of its ban on child labour at a supplier – or one of its subcontractors – the cooperation will be ended for good . How do I know where my H & M items were produced ? All products in H & M's range have the country of origin stated on the label . Why are the factory workers wages so low ? Since H & M neither owns nor operates the factories that make our clothes , we do not set or pay the factory employees' wages . We are rarely the suppliers' only customer and a worker may produce items for a number of different buyers in the same month . We believe that all the employees of a factory should have the same earnings potential , regardless of which buyer they are making clothes for . But we demand – and check – that everyone receives the pay and overtime remuneration to which they are legally entitled . That is the only practicable solution – and the most competition-neutral . Our Code of Conduct states that the statutory minimum wage is the lowest acceptable pay level for our suppliers' employees , but not the recommended level . We prefer to see pay levels based on negotiations between employer and employees , and for the law to lay down a reasonable minimum wage .	Promotion
522	Voluntary Repo Explained by Liz Khan on September 23 , 2011 Voluntary repossession is once you are incapable to go on having to pay your mortgage loan , so you offer your keys to the home loan lending institution with no encountering the regular repo court docket proceedings . Though you may be avoiding the emphasize of authorized proceedings , this could only be thought of as a endure resort . rentepercentage hypotheek Which are the benefits of voluntary repo ? If you are going through real financial problems and the likelihood of you being able to pay off your mortgage arrears is more and more slim , your home loan loan provider may point to that voluntary repossession is an alternative which can help you steer clear of emphasize and credit score dark listing . A voluntary repossession is much prefer a normal repossession except you steer clear of heading to court and when the kys are handed at the time of you will put an end to the stream of calls for and threats from the lending company . Though you may conserve yourself some hassle , the actuality is voluntary repo is probably to get rid of you cash and go away you in even far more financial debt . hypotheek lenen What are the negatives of voluntary repossession ? The place to start ! The main downside of voluntary repossession is which the financial debt is most likely to increase . Although you possess handed at the time of the keys to the home you remain liable to pay the home loan till the lender trades your house , whilst getting to pay for other accommodation for on your own . After you hand over your keys the decision of voluntary repo is last and you possess no management at the time of the sale of the residence so the longer it takes , the far more prices could be increase in up that you are anticipated to pay . On top of doing so once the house is sold it is most likely to be offered for much less compared to its marketplace value if a low offer you is recognized or it is offered at auction . If it is offered for much less that the overall amount that you owe , you have to pay the difference . What charges will I need to pay if my mortgage financial institution trades my home ? Students have plenty of costs related with marketing a house , all of that you will need to pay . These might involve auctioneer expenses , estate representatives costs and expenses for fixes just before the deal . Due to the fact the mortgage financial institution is aware of which you have to include these fees these folks may not be looking for the least expensive and very best cope for you . From the sale of the house you will be anticipated to pay the first overall amount you rented from the lender , perk interest , properties insurance , arrears and penalty prices and council tax . Using these prices mounting up it is very likely that the deal of the house will not be the end of the debt-problems , solely the starting . Which are my various options ? If you possess exhausted remortgaging or distinct payment objectives to halt the repo of your house , you could look at marketing the house on your own . As you can see from the facts above , voluntary repo should solely be regarded as as a endure resort . You have no control over the sale of the home but you remain liable to pay the fees incurred and the home loan until it is offered . Promoting your house quickly yourself to a cash-buyer suggests which you remain in control of what present you accept . Moreover after acknowledged the procedure can consider much less compared to 28 days , once that time your mortgage and financial debt could possibly be purchased off .	Instruction
1532	"Everything you need to upgrade your trike with the new Nuvinvi N360 CVP Hub . This kit features the Nuvinci CVP Hub , custom 20-inch or 26-inch wheel , spokes , nipples , Schwalbe liner , shifter , and cables . Why the NuVinci hub ? The NuVinci continuously variable planetary ( CVP ) is the first viable CVT drivetrain for trikes and a revolutionary , new alternative to conventional derailleur and fixed-gear internal hubs delivering a totally unique riding experience . The ride is incredibly smooth , allowing the rider to shift "" gears "" while pedaling , coasting , or at a standstill . Its elegant , simple design delivers all the advantages of planetary gear sets without the limitation of fixed speed ratios , without wide gaps between gears , and without jolts or jerks to the rider's legs and lower back . Compared to the original NuVinci trike drivetrain , the N360 model is over 30 % lighter , 17 % smaller and has an increased ratio range . Shift effort is significantly reduced even under high pedal forces and there is 50 % less twist rotation required to move between the lowest and highest ratios . In addition , for better protection , the hub interface is now housed inboard of the frame drop-out . With an infinite number of ratios available within its nominal 360 % ratio range , the N360 drivetrain is an attractive replacement for derailleurs and internally geared hubs as it provides a ride and shifting experience unlike any other . The NuVinci CVP enables riders to maintain an optimum cadence regardless of terrain and makes shifting as easy as adjusting the volume on a radio Ideal for cruiser and commuter riding styles , the NuVinci CVP offers a smooth adjusting ratio range . The CVP offers the smoothest and quietest ride . There 's no hesitation , no noise , no waiting for the mechanism to "" hunt "" for the selected gear , nothing to synchronize , and nothing to guess at . A simple twist of the wrist and the NuVinci CVP seamlessly and progressively adjusts to a new ratio . Gone are the intimidation and complexities of conventional shifting , missed gears and dropped chains . The NuVinci CVP is compact , dependable and completely sealed for protection from weather , dirt , and abuse . The NuVinci CVP is revolutionizing the bicycle rider experience with features like : • No gears to fear • Best , smoothest-adjusting-ratio hub ever produced • Uses a set of rotating spheres to transfer torque from pedals to the road • Effortlessly glides between an infinite number of ratios • Simple twist control for smooth , easy progressive changes in ratio • Change ratios any time , even while stopped or going uphill • No missed gears , jerks , thumps , hesitations or noise • Dependable , performance unaffected by weather , dirt or mud Nuvinci FAQs What is the NuVinci CVP ? The NuVinci CVP is a continuously variable and broadly applicable technology , with applications for almost any product using mechanical power transmission . NuVinci technology combines the advantages of a toroidal traction continuously variable transmission ( CVT ) with the advantages of a time-proven planetary gear arrangement . The NuVinci CVP is the only continuously variable transmission that has a planetary gearset's advantages of high torque density , versatility of use , inline shafts , and low production cost . As a result , NuVinci technology is the only technology potentially capable of replacing the planetary gear transmission – in every application – as virtually a plug-and-play replacement . Why is the technology named NuVinci ? The name represents a "" tip of the hat "" to Leonardo da Vinci who , over 500 years ago , sketched what is considered to be the first documented continuously variable transmission . How does the NuVinci CVP work ? The NuVinci transmission uses a set of rotating balls between the input and output components of a transmission that tilt and vary the output speed of the transmission . Tilting the balls changes their contact diameters with the discs , which varies speed . As a result , the NuVinci CVP improves acceleration , performance and powertrain efficiency over conventional transmissions . It is far simpler , permits more stable control , is better packaged , provides more scalability across product lines , is better packaged , and is less expensive to manufacture and assemble than traditional CVTs . CVTs have been around for a long time . Why have they not become commonplace ? The use of CVTs has not become widespread due to multiple problems including scalability challenges , questionable reliability and durability , high cost , and other factors . Despite some obvious drawbacks , some manufacturers such as Ford , Nissan , Honda , and Audi have implemented limited production with old CVT technology because the market need was so great . However , with the development of the NuVinci CVP , the technical roadblocks now have been eliminated – clearing the way for a wide range of CVP applications for which markets are ready and waiting . How is the NuVinci CVP different from conventional transmissions ? The NuVinci CVP offers a wide range of advantages over conventional transmissions . These advantages include : • Less complexity • Greater powertrain system efficiency • Greater acceleration and optimum performance • Easier shifting • Ability to accept multiple inputs while varying speed and managing torque • Multiple power outlets such as for a power take off ( PTO ) application • Easier to package and potentially lighter • Easier and less costly to manufacture • Greater scalability and potential to reuse tooling • Improved hill-climbing How is a NuVinci CVP different from other approaches to CVT technology ? There are four widely accepted alternative approaches to CVT technology : Toroidal The NuVinci CVP , comparatively , offers better torque capacity and simpler control , and is more easily packaged for inclusion in a given application due to its concentric input and output shafts . It is also much more effective to scale across a vehicle range because of its modular nature , and is more durable because of its greater number of traction contacts . Push Belt The NuVinci CVP is simpler in design , more scalable , easier to control , allows for inline shifts , and is less expensive to manufacture . It also does not have the ultimate torque capacity limitations of the push belt and is expected to be more durable . Hydromechanical The NuVinci CVP is much easier to manufacture , easier to control , is lighter , more scalable , inherently quieter , and easier to maintain . Chain The NuVinci CVP has greater torque capacity , allows for inline shafts , is lighter , more scalable , inherently quieter , and less expensive to manufacture and maintain . How does NuVinci N360 hub impact my riding experience ? You 'll find yourself shifting without thought , whenever you feel like it - while you 're pedaling , when you 're coasting ( freewheeling ) , when you 're pedaling backwards , even when you 're stopped . There 's no hesitation , no noise , no waiting for the mechanism to "" hunt "" for the gear you 've selected , nothing to synchronize , nothing to guess at , a simple twist of your wrist and you 're at a new ratio . Say goodbye to racking your shins and dropped chains due to derailleur mis-shifting . You 'll easily find your sweet-spot , adjust your cadence for max power , or up-shift at will to work your legs a bit more . With the NuVinci hub , you 're easily in charge of your riding experience . What are people saying about hubs with NuVinci technology ? Reaction to the NuVinci CVP hub has been nothing short of phenomenal . Bicycle industry executives and consumers alike are quoted as saying : "" Smooth "" , "" very smooth "" "" very smooth , unbelievable "" , "" silky "" "" It 's so easy to shift and maintain a perfect cadence . "" "" Takes the worry out of shifting "" "" I have n't missed riding a bike until now "" "" It is the best transmission on a bicycle "" "" I have seen nothing like it "" "" [ this ] technology is a great fit ... "" "" The ride quality is ready now ! "" "" I want it now ! "" Is there any required maintenance ? The hub contains a "" traction "" fluid . The only recommended maintenance is that the fluid be changed periodically . The change interval will be determined by the manufacturer and type of use but is expected to be every 24 months . Also , unlike bikes with a sensitive derailleur , all of the component parts are enclosed within the hub making it less likely that a part could be hit and damaged , as well as minimizing the exposure of moving parts to dirt and debris . What is the ratio range and efficiency of the NuVinci CVP hub ? From bench and road testing by potential consumers and industry experts , the NuVinci CVP compares favorably with the internally geared hubs on the market today and has the same or better ratio range . How much does the NuVinci CVP Hub weigh ? Our first model is designed for cruiser / comfort and commuter trikes . The weight of the NuVinci rear hub is greater than that of a rear derailleur drivetrain . However , multiple chain rings , a cassette and dual shifters are no longer required ."	Promotion
786	Supervisors : Mustafa BA Djamgoz and Suzanne Eccles Project : Cellular and molecular biophysics of angiogenesis Angiogenesis ( the formation of new blood vasculature ) is a biological process of fundamental importance both during development and in a variety of pathological situations - in particular the growth and spread of cancers . Although angiogenesis is a complex process , involving a variety of activating molecular signals , it incorporates an integrated series of basic cell behaviours , such as cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion , motility , invasion protease secretion , and tubular differentiation . It is clear that activated endothelial cells responding to angiogenic stimuli share many common downstream signalling pathways and functions with invasive cancer cells , and these can be exploited as therapeutic targets ( Eccles 2004 ) . We have provided substantial evidence that the invasive potential of several types of cancer ( prostate , breast and leukaemia ) are potentiated by voltage-gated sodium channel ( VGSC ) expression and / or activity . Importantly , we now have promising new evidence that human endothelial ( blood vessel ) cells also express electrophysiologically-detectable VGSCs and that their activity controls formation of vessels ( ' tubules ' ) as well as their invasive capability . In addition , at least one type of VGSC is induced by hypoxia ( low oxygen levels ) . Hypoxia within tumours is one of the key drivers of angiogenesis and invasion . These findings raise the possibility that VGSC blockers may effectively inhibit the progressive growth and spread of cancers . This project will use cellular and molecular biophysical techniques to further characterize VGSC expression , activation and regulation in human endothelial cells and to elucidate the contribution of VGSC activity to tumour angiogenesis .	Information/Explanation
136	STATUTE OF THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- TABLE OF CONTENTS : Chapter I : Organization of the Court ( Articles 2 - 33 ) Chapter II : Competence of the Court ( Articles 34 - 38 ) Chapter III : Procedure ( Articles 39 - 64 ) Chapter IV : Advisory Opinions ( Articles 65 - 68 ) Chapter V : Amendment ( Articles 69 & 70 ) Article 1 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The International Court of Justice established by the Charter of the United Nations as the principal judicial organ of the United Nations shall be constituted and shall function in accordance with the provisions of the present Statute . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CHAPTER I - ORGANIZATION OF THE COURT -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Article 2 The Court shall be composed of a body of independent judges , elected regardless of their nationality from among persons of high moral character , who possess the qualifications required in their respective countries for appointment to the highest judicial offices , or are jurisconsults of recognized competence in international law . Article 3 1 . The Court shall consist of fifteen members , no two of whom may be nationals of the same state . 2 . A person who for the purposes of membership in the Court could be regarded as a national of more than one state shall be deemed to be a national of the one in which he ordinarily exercises civil and political rights . Article 4 1 . The members of the Court shall be elected by the General Assembly and by the Security Council from a list of persons nominated by the national groups in the Permanent Court of Arbitration , in accordance with the following provisions . 2 . In the case of Members of the United Nations not represented in the Permanent Court of Arbitration , candidates shall be nominated by national groups appointed for this purpose by their governments under the same conditions as those prescribed for members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration by Article 44 of the Convention of The Hague of 1907 for the pacific settlement of international disputes . 3 . The conditions under which a state which is a party to the present Statute but is not a Member of the United Nations may participate in electing the members of the Court shall , in the absence of a special agreement , be laid down by the General Assembly upon recommendation of the Security Council . Article 5 1 . At least three months before the date of the election , the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall address a written request to the members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration belonging to the states which are parties to the present Statute , and to the members of the national groups appointed under Article 4 , paragraph 2 , inviting them to undertake , within a given time , by national groups , the nomination of persons in a position to accept the duties of a member of the Court . 2 . No group may nominate more than four persons , not more than two of whom shall be of their own nationality . In no case may the number of candidates nominated by a group be more than double the number of seats to be filled . Article 6 Before making these nominations , each national group is recommended to consult its highest court of justice , its legal faculties and schools of law , and its national academies and national sections of international academies devoted to the study of law . Article 7 1 . The Secretary-General shall prepare a list in alphabetical order of all the persons thus nominated . Save as provided in Article 12 , paragraph 2 , these shall be the only persons eligible . 2 . The Secretary-General shall submit this list to the General Assembly and to the Security Council . Article 8 The General Assembly and the Security Council shall proceed independently of one another to elect the members of the Court . Article 9 At every election , the electors shall bear in mind not only that the persons to be elected should individually possess the qualifications required , but also that in the body as a whole the representation of the main forms of civilization and of the principal legal systems of the world should be assured . Article 10 1 . Those candidates who obtain an absolute majority of votes in the General Assembly and in the Security Council shall be considered as elected . 2 . Any vote of the Security Council , whether for the election of judges or for the appointment of members of the conference envisaged in Article 12 , shall be taken without any distinction between permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council . 3 . In the event of more than one national of the same state obtaining an absolute majority of the votes both of the General Assembly and of the Security Council , the eldest of these only shall be considered as elected . Article 11 If , after the first meeting held for the purpose of the election , one or more seats remain to be filled , a second and , if necessary , a third meeting shall take place . Article 12 1 . If , after the third meeting , one or more seats still remain unfilled , a joint conference consisting of six members , three appointed by the General Assembly and three by the Security Council , may be formed at any time at the request of either the General Assembly or the Security Council , for the purpose of choosing by the vote of an absolute majority one name for each seat still vacant , to submit to the General Assembly and the Security Council for their respective acceptance . 2 . If the joint conference is unanimously agreed upon any person who fulfills the required conditions , he may be included in its list , even though he was not included in the list of nominations referred to in Article 7 . 3 . If the joint conference is satisfied that it will not be successful in procuring an election , those members of the Court who have already been elected shall , within a period to be fixed by the Security Council , proceed to fill the vacant seats by selection from among those candidates who have obtained votes either in the General Assembly or in the Security Council . 4 . In the event of an equality of votes among the judges , the eldest judge shall have a casting vote . Article 13 1 . The members of the Court shall be elected for nine years and may be re-elected ; provided , however , that of the judges elected at the first election , the terms of five judges shall expire at the end of three years and the terms of five more judges shall expire at the end of six years . 2 . The judges whose terms are to expire at the end of the above-mentioned initial periods of three and six years shall be chosen by lot to be drawn by the Secretary-General immediately after the first election has been completed . 3 . The members of the Court shall continue to discharge their duties until their places have been filled . Though replaced , they shall finish any cases which they may have begun . 4 . In the case of the resignation of a member of the Court , the resignation shall be addressed to the President of the Court for transmission to the Secretary-General . This last notification makes the place vacant . Article 14 Vacancies shall be filled by the same method as that laid down for the first election , subject to the following provision : the Secretary-General shall , within one month of the occurrence of the vacancy , proceed to issue the invitations provided for in Article 5 , and the date of the election shall be fixed by the Security Council . Article 15 A member of the Court elected to replace a member whose term of office has not expired shall hold office for the remainder of his predecessor's term . Article 16 1 . No member of the Court may exercise any political or administrative function , or engage in any other occupation of a professional nature . 2 . Any doubt on this point shall be settled by the decision of the Court . Article 17 1 . No member of the Court may act as agent , counsel , or advocate in any case . 2 . No member may participate in the decision of any case in which he has previously taken part as agent , counsel , or advocate for one of the parties , or as a member of a national or international court , or of a commission of enquiry , or in any other capacity . 3 . Any doubt on this point shall be settled by the decision of the Court . Article 18 1 . No member of the Court can be dismissed unless , in the unanimous opinion of the other members , he has ceased to fulfill the required conditions . 2 . Formal notification thereof shall be made to the Secretary-General by the Registrar . 3 . This notification makes the place vacant . Article 19 The members of the Court , when engaged on the business of the Court , shall enjoy diplomatic privileges and immunities . Article 20 Every member of the Court shall , before taking up his duties , make a solemn declaration in open court that he will exercise his powers impartially and conscientiously . Article 21 1 . The Court shall elect its President and Vice-President for three years ; they may be re-elected . 2 . The Court shall appoint its Registrar and may provide for the appointment of such other officers as may be necessary . Article 22 1 . The seat of the Court shall be established at The Hague . This , however , shall not prevent the Court from sitting and exercising its functions elsewhere whenever the Court considers it desirable . 2 . The President and the Registrar shall reside at the seat of the Court . Article 23 1 . The Court shall remain permanently in session , except during the judicial vacations , the dates and duration of which shall be fixed by the Court . 2 . Members of the Court are entitled to periodic leave , the dates and duration of which shall be fixed by the Court , having in mind the distance between The Hague and the home of each judge . 3 . Members of the Court shall be bound , unless they are on leave or prevented from attending by illness or other serious reasons duly explained to the President , to hold themselves permanently at the disposal of the Court . Article 24 1 . If , for some special reason , a member of the Court considers that he should not take part in the decision of a particular case , he shall so inform the President . 2 . If the President considers that for some special reason one of the members of the Court should not sit in a particular case , he shall give him notice accordingly . 3 . If in any such case the member Court and the President disagree , the matter shall be settled by the decision of the Court . Article 25 1 . The full Court shall sit except when it is expressly provided otherwise in the present Statute . 2 . Subject to the condition that the number of judges available to constitute the Court is not thereby reduced below eleven , the Rules of the Court may provide for allowing one or more judges , according to circumstances and in rotation , to be dispensed from sitting . 3 . A quorum of nine judges shall suffice to constitute the Court . Article 26 1 . The Court may from time to time form one or more chambers , composed of three or more judges as the Court may determine , for dealing with particular categories of cases ; for example , labour cases and cases relating to transit and communications . 2 . The Court may at any time form a chamber for dealing with a particular case . The number of judges to constitute such a chamber shall be determined by the Court with the approval of the parties . 3 . Cases shall be heard and determined by the chambers provided for in this article if the parties so request . Article 27 A judgment given by any of the chambers provided for in Articles 26 and 29 shall be considered as rendered by the Court . Article 28 The chambers provided for in Articles 26 and 29 may , with the consent of the parties , sit and exercise their functions elsewhere than at The Hague . Article 29 With a view to the speedy dispatch of business , the Court shall form annually a chamber composed of five judges which , at the request of the parties , may hear and determine cases by summary procedure . In addition , two judges shall be selected for the purpose of replacing judges who find it impossible to sit . Article 30 1 . The Court shall frame rules for carrying out its functions . In particular , it shall lay down rules of procedure . 2 . The Rules of the Court may provide for assessors to sit with the Court or with any of its chambers , without the right to vote . Article 31 1 . Judges of the nationality of each of the parties shall retain their right to sit in the case before the Court . 2 . If the Court includes upon the Bench a judge of the nationality of one of the parties , any other party may choose a person to sit as judge . Such person shall be chosen preferably from among those persons who have been nominated as candidates as provided in Articles 4 and 5 . 3 . If the Court includes upon the Bench no judge of the nationality of the parties , each of these parties may proceed to choose a judge as provided in paragraph 2 of this Article . 4 . The provisions of this Article shall apply to the case of Articles 26 and 29 . In such cases , the President shall request one or , if necessary , two of the members of the Court forming the chamber to give place to the members of the Court of the nationality of the parties concerned , and , failing such , or if they are unable to be present , to the judges specially chosen by the parties . 5 . Should there be several parties in the same interest , they shall , for the purpose of the preceding provisions , be reckoned as one party only . Any doubt upon this point shall be settled by the decision of the Court . 6 . Judges chosen as laid down in paragraphs 2 , 3 , and 4 of this Article shall fulfill the conditions required by Articles 2 , 17 ( paragraph 2 ) , 20 , and 24 of the present Statute . They shall take part in the decision on terms of complete equality with their colleagues . Article 32 1 . Each member of the Court shall receive an annual salary . 2 . The President shall receive a special annual allowance . 3 . The Vice-President shall receive a special allowance for every day on which he acts as President . 4 . The judges chosen under Article 31 , other than members of the Court , shall receive compensation for each day on which they exercise their functions . 5 . These salaries , allowances , and compensation shall be fixed by the General Assembly . They may not be decreased during the term of office . 6 . The salary of the Registrar shall be fixed by the General Assembly on the proposal of the Court . 7 . Regulations made by the General Assembly shall fix the conditions under which retirement pensions may be given to members of the Court and to the Registrar , and the conditions under which members of the Court and the Registrar shall have their travelling expenses refunded . 8 . The above salaries , allowances , and compensation shall be free of all taxation . Article 33 The expenses of the Court shall be borne by the United Nations in such a manner as shall be decided by the General Assembly . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CHAPTER II - COMPETENCE OF THE COURT -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Article 34 1 . Only states may be parties in cases before the Court . 2 . The Court , subject to and in conformity with its Rules , may request of public international organizations information relevant to cases before it , and shall receive such information presented by such organizations on their own initiative . 3 . Whenever the construction of the constituent instrument of a public international organization or of an international convention adopted thereunder is in question in a case before the Court , the Registrar shall so notify the public international organization concerned and shall communicate to it copies of all the written proceedings . Article 35 1 . The Court shall be open to the states parties to the present Statute . 2 . The conditions under which the Court shall be open to other states shall , subject to the special provisions contained in treaties in force , be laid down by the Security Council , but in no case shall such conditions place the parties in a position of inequality before the Court . 3 . When a state which is not a Member of the United Nations is a party to a case , the Court shall fix the amount which that party is to contribute towards the expenses of the Court . This provision shall not apply if such state is bearing a share of the expenses of the Court Article 36 1 . The jurisdiction of the Court comprises all cases which the parties refer to it and all matters specially provided for in the Charter of the United Nations or in treaties and conventions in force . 2 . The states parties to the present Statute may at any time declare that they recognize as compulsory ipso facto and without special agreement , in relation to any other state accepting the same obligation , the jurisdiction of the Court in all legal disputes concerning : a . the interpretation of a treaty ; b . any question of international law ; c . the existence of any fact which , if established , would constitute a breach of an international obligation ; d . the nature or extent of the reparation to be made for the breach of an international obligation . 3 . The declarations referred to above may be made unconditionally or on condition of reciprocity on the part of several or certain states , or for a certain time . 4 . Such declarations shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations , who shall transmit copies thereof to the parties to the Statute and to the Registrar of the Court . 5 . Declarations made under Article 36 of the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice and which are still in force shall be deemed , as between the parties to the present Statute , to be acceptances of the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice for the period which they still have to run and in accordance with their terms . 6 . In the event of a dispute as to whether the Court has jurisdiction , the matter shall be settled by the decision of the Court . Article 37 Whenever a treaty or convention in force provides for reference of a matter to a tribunal to have been instituted by the League of Nations , or to the Permanent Court of International Justice , the matter shall , as between the parties to the present Statute , be referred to the International Court of Justice . Article 38 1 . The Court , whose function is to decide in accordance with international law such disputes as are submitted to it , shall apply : a . international conventions , whether general or particular , establishing rules expressly recognized by the contesting states ; b . international custom , as evidence of a general practice accepted as law ; c . the general principles of law recognized by civilized nations ; d . subject to the provisions of Article 59 , judicial decisions and the teachings of the most highly qualified publicists of the various nations , as subsidiary means for the determination of rules of law . 2 . This provision shall not prejudice the power of the Court to decide a case ex aequo et bono , if the parties agree thereto . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CHAPTER III - PROCEDURE -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Article 39 1 . The official languages of the Court shall be French and English . If the parties agree that the case shall be conducted in French , the judgment shall be delivered in French . If the parties agree that the case shall be conducted in English , the judgment shall be delivered in English . 2 . In the absence of an agreement as to which language shall be employed , each party may , in the pleadings , use the language which it prefers ; the decision of the Court shall be given in French and English . In this case the Court shall at the same time determine which of the two texts shall be considered as authoritative . 3 . The Court shall , at the request of any party , authorize a language other than French or English to be used by that party . Article 40 1 . Cases are brought before the Court , as the case may be , either by the notification of the special agreement or by a written application addressed to the Registrar . In either case the subject of the dispute and the parties shall be indicated . 2 . The Registrar shall forthwith communicate the application to all concerned . 3 . He shall also notify the Members of the United Nations through the Secretary-General , and also any other states entitled to appear before the Court . Article 41 1 . The Court shall have the power to indicate , if it considers that circumstances so require , any provisional measures which ought to be taken to preserve the respective rights of either party . 2 . Pending the final decision , notice of the measures suggested shall forthwith be given to the parties and to the Security Council . Article 42 1 . The parties shall be represented by agents . 2 . They may have the assistance of counsel or advocates before the Court . 3 . The agents , counsel , and advocates of parties before the Court shall enjoy the privileges and immunities necessary to the independent exercise of their duties . Article 43 1 . The procedure shall consist of two parts : written and oral . 2 . The written proceedings shall consist of the communication to the Court and to the parties of memorials , counter-memorials and , if necessary , replies ; also all papers and documents in support . 3 . These communications shall be made through the Registrar , in the order and within the time fixed by the Court . 4 . A certified copy of every document produced by one party shall be communicated to the other party . 5 . The oral proceedings shall consist of the hearing by the Court of witnesses , experts , agents , counsel , and advocates . Article 44 1 . For the service of all notices upon persons other than the agents , counsel , and advocates , the Court shall apply direct to the government of the state upon whose territory the notice has to be served . 2 . The same provision shall apply whenever steps are to be taken to procure evidence on the spot . Article 45 The hearing shall be under the control of the President or , if he is unable to preside , of the Vice-President ; if neither is able to preside , the senior judge present shall preside . Article 46 The hearing in Court shall be public , unless the Court shall decide otherwise , or unless the parties demand that the public be not admitted . Article 47 1 . Minutes shall be made at each hearing and signed by the Registrar and the President . 2 . These minutes alone shall be authentic . Article 48 The Court shall make orders for the conduct of the case , shall decide the form and time in which each party must conclude its arguments , and make all arrangements connected with the taking of evidence . Article 49 The Court may , even before the hearing begins , call upon the agents to produce any document or to supply any explanations . Formal note shall be taken of any refusal . Article 50 The Court may , at any time , entrust any individual , body , bureau , commission , or other organization that it may select , with the task of carrying out an enquiry or giving an expert opinion . Article 51 During the hearing any relevant questions are to be put to the witnesses and experts under the conditions laid down by the Court in the rules of procedure referred to in Article 30 . Article 52 After the Court has received the proofs and evidence within the time specified for the purpose , it may refuse to accept any further oral or written evidence that one party may desire to present unless the other side consents . Article 53 1 . Whenever one of the parties does not appear before the Court , or fails to defend its case , the other party may call upon the Court to decide in favour of its claim . 2 . The Court must , before doing so , satisfy itself , not only that it has jurisdiction in accordance with Articles 36 and 37 , but also that the claim is well founded in fact and law . Article 54 1 . When , subject to the control of the Court , the agents , counsel , and advocates have completed their presentation of the case , the President shall declare the hearing closed . 2 . The Court shall withdraw to consider the judgment . 3 . The deliberations of the Court shall take place in private and remain secret . Article 55 1 . All questions shall be decided by a majority of the judges present . 2 . In the event of an equality of votes , the President or the judge who acts in his place shall have a casting vote . Article 56 1 . The judgment shall state the reasons on which it is based . 2 . It shall contain the names of the judges who have taken part in the decision . Article 57 If the judgment does not represent in whole or in part the unanimous opinion of the judges , any judge shall be entitled to deliver a separate opinion . Article 58 The judgment shall be signed by the President and by the Registrar . It shall be read in open court , due notice having been given to the agents . Article 59 The decision of the Court has no binding force except between the parties and in respect of that particular case . Article 60 The judgment is final and without appeal . In the event of dispute as to the meaning or scope of the judgment , the Court shall construe it upon the request of any party . Article 61 1 . An application for revision of a judgment may be made only when it is based upon the discovery of some fact of such a nature as to be a decisive factor , which fact was , when the judgment was given , unknown to the Court and also to the party claiming revision , always provided that such ignorance was not due to negligence . 2 . The proceedings for revision shall be opened by a judgment of the Court expressly recording the existence of the new fact , recognizing that it has such a character as to lay the case open to revision , and declaring the application admissible on this ground . 3 . The Court may require previous compliance with the terms of the judgment before it admits proceedings in revision . 4 . The application for revision must be made at latest within six months of the discovery of the new fact . 5 . No application for revision may be made after the lapse of ten years from the date of the judgment . Article 62 l . Should a state consider that it has an interest of a legal nature which may be affected by the decision in the case , it may submit a request to the Court to be permitted to intervene . 2 It shall be for the Court to decide upon this request . Article 63 1 . Whenever the construction of a convention to which states other than those concerned in the case are parties is in question , the Registrar shall notify all such states forthwith . 2 . Every state so notified has the right to intervene in the proceedings ; but if it uses this right , the construction given by the judgment will be equally binding upon it . Article 64 Unless otherwise decided by the Court , each party shall bear its own costs . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CHAPTER IV - ADVISORY OPINIONS -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Article 65 1 . The Court may give an advisory opinion on any legal question at the request of whatever body may be authorized by or in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations to make such a request . 2 . Questions upon which the advisory opinion of the Court is asked shall be laid before the Court by means of a written request containing an exact statement of the question upon which an opinion is required , and accompanied by all documents likely to throw light upon the question . Article 66 1 . The Registrar shall forthwith give notice of the request for an advisory opinion to all states entitled to appear before the Court . 2 . The Registrar shall also , by means of a special and direct communication , notify any state entitled to appear before the Court or international organization considered by the Court , or , should it not be sitting , by the President , as likely to be able to furnish information on the question , that the Court will be prepared to receive , within a time-limit to be fixed by the President , written statements , or to hear , at a public sitting to be held for the purpose , oral statements relating to the question . 3 . Should any such state entitled to appear before the Court have failed to receive the special communication referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article , such state may express a desire to submit a written statement or to be heard ; and the Court will decide . 4 . States and organizations having presented written or oral statements or both shall be permitted to comment on the statements made by other states or organizations in the form , to the extent , and within the time-limits which the Court , or , should it not be sitting , the President , shall decide in each particular case . Accordingly , the Registrar shall in due time communicate any such written statements to states and organizations having submitted similar statements . Article 67 The Court shall deliver its advisory opinions in open court , notice having been given to the Secretary-General and to the representatives of Members of the United Nations , of other states and of international organizations immediately concerned . Article 68 In the exercise of its advisory functions the Court shall further be guided by the provisions of the present Statute which apply in contentious cases to the extent to which it recognizes them to be applicable . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CHAPTER V - AMENDMENT -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Article 69 Amendments to the present Statute shall be effected by the same procedure as is provided by the Charter of the United Nations for amendments to that Charter , subject however to any provisions which the General Assembly upon recommendation of the Security Council may adopt concerning the participation of states which are parties to the present Statute but are not Members of the United Nations . Article 70 The Court shall have power to propose such amendments to the present Statute as it may deem necessary , through written communications to the Secretary-General , for consideration in conformity with the provisions of Article 69 . --------------------------------------------------------------------------------	Legal
201	"Contents Paragraphs Page MANDATE 1 - 2 3 SCOPE OF THE NOTE 3 3 WORKSHOP PROCEEDINGS 4 - 6 3 WORKSHOP SUMMARY 7 - 49 4 General 7 - 20 4 Adverse effects of climate change 21 - 33 6 Impact of the implementation of response measures and approaches to minimize such impact 34 - 44 7 Enhancing the participation of developing country experts in modelling efforts 45 - 49 9 ISSUES FOR FURTHER CONSIDERATION 50 10 Annex Agenda for the workshop on the status of modelling activities to assess the adverse effects of climate change and the impact of implemented response measures Wissenschaftszentrum , Bonn , Germany , 16-18 May 2002 11 The Conference of the Parties ( COP ) at its seventh session , by its decision 5 / CP . 7 , requested the secretariat to organize a workshop , before the eighth session of the COP , on the status of modelling activities to assess the adverse effects of climate change and the impact of response measures already implemented on individual developing country Parties , including on how to enhance the participation of developing country experts in such efforts , and to report the results of this workshop to the COP at its eighth session . The terms of reference of this workshop were also to include assessing approaches to minimize the adverse effects of response measures on developing country Parties . This workshop was held from 16 to 18 May 2002 in Bonn , Germany , under the guidance of Ms. Daniela Stoytcheva , Vice-Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation ( SBI ) , acting on behalf of Mr. Raúl Estrada Oyuela , Chair of the SBI , and Mr. Halldor Thorgeirsson , Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice ( SBSTA ) . Scope of the note This document contains a short description of the proceedings of the workshop ( section III ) , a summary of the discussions ( section IV ) , and issues identified for further consideration ( section V ) . The agenda of the workshop is included in the annex to this document . The workshop was attended by 36 experts in the field of modelling , representing Parties international organizations and research institutions . Some of these experts were involved in the preparation of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC ) Third Assessment Report ( TAR ) , and in the development of models at academic institutions . In accordance with the mandate , the workshop focused on the following main issues : Evolution and current status of modelling activities to assess the adverse effects of climate change , identification of gaps and limitations in current approaches to modelling , and recommendations for improving the effectiveness of modelling activities in the context of assessing adverse effects of climate change ; Evolution and current status of modelling activities to assess the impact of implemented response measures , identification of gaps and limitations in current approaches to modelling , assessments of approaches to minimize the adverse effects of response measures on developing country Parties , and recommendations for improving the effectiveness of modelling activities in the context of assessing the impact of response measures ; Enhancing the participation of developing country experts in modelling activities to assess the adverse effects of climate change and the impact of implemented response measures . The workshop consisted of an introductory session , working sessions devoted to each of the objectives , followed by a panel discussion , and a concluding session . There were discussions and exchange of information on the experience of national experts from developing and developed countries , and organizations , in applying current methodologies , the usefulness of data , and uncertainties , among others . The experts discussed the limitations of the current models , identified some possible areas for improvement , and made suggestions regarding the evolution of such modelling activities . Participants in the panel discussion included representatives from Brazil , Burkina Faso , Portugal , Saudi Arabia , United States of America , the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ( FAO ) and the International Energy Agency ( IEA ) . General Modelling activities for assessing the adverse effects of climate change and the impact of the implementation of response measures have evolved considerably in the past decade ; in particular , spatial and temporal resolution have greatly improved . During the same period modelling capacity has become more widely disseminated and more data have become available for some models . The ability to adjust modelling activities to changing circumstances has also improved , although it was recognized that more improvement is necessary before the output of such models can be integrated in the decision-making process . Although modelling capacity is generally concentrated in industrialized countries , efforts are being made to develop models and modelling frameworks that can be adapted and used in developing countries . This is particularly true for modelling the adverse effects of climate change . Expertise for modelling the impacts of response measures is concentrated at research institutions and in a number of international organizations . Developing country participants stressed that their countries are still at an early phase of model development . Some participants attributed this lag to , for example , the lack of information on existing models , language constraints , the need to adapt such models to national circumstances , and the high costs of acquiring the models , conducting relevant training and developing extensive databases for their application . Some participants stressed that the main challenge facing developing countries is that most models and their coverage are optimized for use in developed countries and therefore do not respond to the circumstances and needs of developing countries . Very few models are able to evaluate the socio-economic impacts of climate change or perform an integrated analysis of impacts of response measures . Specific shortcomings of models were also discussed in detail . The main ones highlighted were gaps in data sets , limited regional downscaling , limited model validation , deficiencies in the development of assumptions and in applicability , verification , and separation of the impact of different policies , and the high degree of uncertainty in attempting to simulate the future . Other limitations relate to the reliability of models , the availability of accurate data , comparability of models and the availability of sector-specific models , particularly as applicable to developing countries . The modelling process for assessing the adverse effects of climate change has similarities and differences with that for assessing the impact of implementation of response measures . Both address global models with national disaggregation , have top-down and bottom-up perspectives , have difficulties with non-price issues and with inter-comparability , and suffer from a lack of adequate data and uncertainties associated with results , and their simulations rest on long-term climate scenarios . But modelling the adverse effects of climate change addresses aggregate changes applied to specific locales , whereas modelling the impact of response measures examines the impact of individual policies in different locales . Modelling results do not always meet the needs of stakeholders , and participants stressed the need for stakeholder involvement in the modelling process , both for framing the questions that the models should endeavour to answer at the outset of the exercise , and for ensuring that the outcome of the models are in a form that is usable in the context of the existing decision-making framework . Involving stakeholders will also help increase confidence in and acceptance of the model output . An essential function of modelling is to support informed decision-making . Because of the gaps and limitations in the modelling process , the usability of the models or their results and the reliability of the output are less than what is currently needed by decision makers and other stakeholders . As these shortcomings are not likely to be overcome soon , there is a need to improve decision-making under uncertainty , in order to render the outcome of the models usable , despite their limitations . An approach suggested for developing countries was to address modelling for climate change within the wider context of sustainable development . Such an integrated outlook would enable a comparison of the costs of climate change adaptation and mitigation with those of other priority objectives , including poverty alleviation , and would be useful for developing countries in which climate change issues ( and related modelling efforts ) may not be a high priority . In this context , many participants emphasized that one useful approach to modelling at the national level would be to adopt a methodology that would engage all key stakeholders and promote national consensus building , and would link development activities with climate change vulnerabilities , adaptation and impacts on economic , social and environmental goals . An "" action impact matrix "" method presented at the workshop , complemented with sectoral and local models which focus on impacts , adaptation and mitigation options , would provide such an approach . It was noted that , in developing countries , the data required as input to models for simulating the adverse effects of climate change and of implemented response measures are not consistently available or collected , are inaccessible or are of poor quality . At the same time , it was also stressed that the process of data collection and processing for using these models should be cost-effective , hence the need for coordinated data-collection efforts at the national , regional and international levels . In order to help developing country experts to choose the models most appropriate to their needs for conducting country-specific analyses , information provided with the models should include descriptions of the assumptions made and of the analytical approaches used for the models ; this would permit a better understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of a model for a given purpose . Consideration should be given to forging links among existing national , regional and international institutions , particularly those involved in gathering data for climate impacts models , such as the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the World Meteorological Organization ( WMO ) , the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC ) , the United Nations Environment Programme ( UNEP ) , the European Commission ( EC ) , and various non-governmental organizations ( NGOs ) . For data required to run economic models , collaboration among organizations such as the United Nations Statistical Office ( UNSO ) and other UN agencies , the World Bank , the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ( OECD ) , the Latin American Energy Organization ( OLADE ) , the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and the IEA , was suggested . National communications from Annex I and non-Annex I Parties were mentioned as useful channels for disseminating experience on the appropriateness of modelling activities to assess the adverse effects of climate change , the impact of the implementation of response measures , and approaches to minimize the adverse effects of response measures on developing country Parties . National communications were also seen as an important tool for communicating to the modelling community what the needs of Parties are in furthering the modelling process in a way that is consistent with national priorities . It was considered useful for Parties to use the national communications process to identify modelling capacity-building needs and priorities and assessment efforts already completed or under way . Adverse effects of climate change Global climate modelling techniques have undergone steady development in the past decade . Research efforts have been directed towards developing models and approaches aimed at improving information about climate change on the regional scale . But Global Circulation Models ( GCMs ) , as tools for drawing critical conclusions regarding global climate change , are limited in their ability to simulate important atmospheric phenomena and to accurately represent complex natural interconnections . There is much uncertainty surrounding climate scenarios , particularly at the national and local scales and for climate variables other than temperature , precipitation and sea level . Consequently , the modelling process to assess the adverse effects of climate change does not currently produce results that are trustworthy enough to serve as a basis upon which decision makers can address adaptation options . This is particularly true when trying to model the effect of a changing climate on the frequency , magnitude and spatial occurrence of extreme weather events such as floods , cyclones and droughts . To date , GCMs have been unable to present unambiguous results relating to extreme events . Most models assume only gradual changes in climate . Many impacts arise from quite localized climate conditions but most climate GCMs provide results only across fairly large geographic areas . There is a need for enhanced regional specification of climate variables at geographic levels consistent with the impacts of climate change . For example , there are no models focusing on the adverse effects of climate change in the Sahelian region , which is prone to drought , desertification and fragile ecosystems . Another major challenge confronting the use of GCMs , and adding to the uncertainty of their outputs , is the lack of data at adequate temporal resolutions , particularly for climatic variables other than temperature and rainfall . Climate impact sectoral models currently used by developing countries cover primarily agriculture , water resources , health and coastal zones . Most allow some quantitative assessment of biophysical impacts . Some include adaptation into this assessment . The workshop discussed in detail the current status of modelling activities in the sectors of health and of agriculture and food security . Current knowledge on the relationship between climate and health is limited . Most models concentrate mainly on the statistical association of climate variability with the incidence of disease . It is not easy to extrapolate these findings to the assessment of long-term impacts of climate change , especially given the uncertainties of climate change scenarios . Modelling climate change impacts on agriculture was seen to be more advanced than modelling in other sectors . The simulation crop growth models allow an effective evaluation of impacts arising from changes in climate variables as well as from the effects of direct carbon dioxide fertilization , and are able to incorporate different adaptation options in the assessment . For the purpose of supporting adaptation to climate change , an important issue for the evolution of modelling activities in all sectors is how to incorporate into the modelling process the different categories of adaptation options for natural and human systems ( anticipatory , reactive , natural systems , human system , planned , autonomous ) , how to assess adaptive capacity and how to address the link between climate change and climate variability and extremes . In addition , methodological issues such as the use of discount rates , intergenerational equity , risk assessment , opportunity costs , and weighting uncertainty in cost-benefit analyses , are some of the areas in need of further attention . One constraint facing the user community is insufficient knowledge of all the modelling options available , and of their detailed specifications , limitations , data needs , accuracy and assumptions . It would be useful to centralize this information for easy access by users , in particular by developing countries , by establishing a comprehensive catalogue to enable comparisons and informed selection . In spite of efforts towards improving cooperation in the development and use of models , there is not enough sharing of experience in the use of models , particularly among developing countries where synergies could be promoted by pooling information on data needs , appropriateness to specific sectors or geographical regions , accuracy of results , best practices and lessons learned . The involvement of stakeholders in the modelling process for climate impacts is important and needs further promotion to ensure that these modelling activities integrate well with national development priorities , and that they provide the relevant answers to questions posed by policy makers in assessing adaptation options . In this context , there is a need for interagency coordination at the national level in the process of model development and application . In this light , the paradigm surrounding modelling activities should evolve into one that is stakeholder-driven and supportive of national sustainable development priorities . Modelling activities should be seen as a component of support for decision-making under uncertainty , particularly for the evaluation of adaptive responses to climate change . Participants concluded that more efforts should be made in developing and / or adopting methodologies and tools for conducting detailed sector and case study specific vulnerability assessments , which could lead to a more precise assessment of how to implement specific adaptation options . In this regard , the enhancement of regional networks can be an effective means for overcoming scale issues in the development of modelling frameworks and for sharing insights . Impact of the implementation of response measures and approaches to minimize such impact Although some modelling work has been done to date to assess the impact of the implementation of response measures , current models are not able to model climate policy impacts adequately . Results vary depending on the model used and on input data or assumptions . Existing models produce a wide diversity of short-term impacts , although if a full portfolio of mitigation options is used , all models show that potential adverse impacts would be reduced . In the longer term ( post 2020 ) , with more aggressive reductions , impacts may be greater - although this depends on policy choices . Existing models have been developed mainly in industrialized countries such as the United States , Australia , Japan and in Europe , and the concerns and national circumstances of developing countries have not been fully integrated into their structure . In particular , they are unable to fully disaggregate the impacts of a suite of climate change measures and mechanisms given the intricate linkages between national and international economies , the complexities among sectors , and the transdisciplinary nature of such impacts . However , existing models may serve as a useful basis for future work in meeting the analytical needs of developing countries . The greatest benefit of economic modelling is that it provides a structured framework for organizing data and ideas , but there is substantial uncertainty associated with the results of such modelling exercises as a result of data gaps , model structure inadequacies and the incomplete analytical framework for evaluating the impacts of response measures . These uncertainties raise serious questions about the appropriate use of models . They further limit the value of the absolute quantitative outcomes of models and the significance of individual quantitative calculations . However , all participants viewed comparison of policy approaches as a fruitful use of modelled data . There are other difficulties associated with the use of such models , relating to availability of comprehensive data sets , the validity of assumptions and the compatibility and applicability of these assumptions to the modelling exercise , verification , quantifying the economic impacts associated with the different policies and policy instruments ( fiscal , monetary , regulatory ) and separating climate policy consequences from consequences of other policies ( e . g . energy , environment , social ) . Some participants believed that approaches to modelling should focus on the impact of individual policies but others felt that they should address packages of policies . At the moment most approaches focus on a portfolio of policies covering all sectors . In terms of conceptual or methodological challenges , in order to determine the impact of response measures it is necessary to compare current economic conditions with those of an idealized world in which no measures are undertaken . Additionally , most academic and government analyses of response measures are normative and focus on the implications of policies not yet implemented for developed countries . Further improvement in these models is needed in the types of policy covered , the gases modelled , and how to model trade policies and their effects , among others . Additionally , training for proper interpretation of the data from existing models needs further urgent attention . There are many other methodological complexities that may influence a model's simulation of the impacts of response measures . First , there is the issue of defining policy choices - which polices are used ; which gas , fuel and sector is the focus of the simulation ; when do the polices take effect and how are these then modelled . Second , within the policy choices there is the question of definition of specific policies and their coverage of greenhouse gases , given that these are not equally divided among all sectors , although energy and carbon dioxide are considered to be the most important sector and gas , respectively . It is important to disaggregate emissions by sector and by gas for useful policy analysis . Based on information from the IPCC Third Assessment Report ( TAR ) , the way models generally treat policies affects the assessment differently , depending on whether they are top-down , bottom-up , General Equilibrium Models , input-output or macroeconomic models . Market policies are often stylized representations only , and market imperfections are not well represented , if at all . With regard to technology policies , most models require exogenous assumptions on behaviour and preference . Most models are seldom able to account for new technology , or to accurately estimate the geographic diffusion of existing technologies . One presenter noted that impacts to response measures differ with types of economies , and that one may not be able to generalize in this regard . The TAR suggests that there may be adverse impacts of response measures on some developing countries , and further work is needed to determine , with less uncertainty , the magnitude of the impact of response measures and to assess the impacts of response measures on individual countries . To this end , it was suggested that a specific chapter in the fourth assessment report of the IPCC could be dedicated to analysing ways to minimize the impact of response measures on developing countries . Some participants stressed the urgency for refining methodologies to assess the impacts on developing countries of policies already implemented by Annex I Parties . In order to do so , current models for evaluating the effects of response measures need to be expanded in their coverage of countries and of issues . The objective should not be to determine which model or group of models is more advanced , but rather to agree on which existing models can be used as part of a portfolio of tools for decision-making . These participants also suggested that in assessing the effects of policies , such factors as market approaches ( taxes , subsidies , cap-and-trade ) , regulations , and research and development need to be included in the simulation . A major constraint for assessment is incomplete data on specific policy information and a lack of methods to parameterize them properly . To date , the interactions between multiple policies - either within or across countries - are not fully understood . There is also an inadequate assessment of technology development . In addition , few models have been tested against present day observations . In the light of these constraints it was proposed that more modelling efforts , which would provide a detailed examination of welfare , terms of trade and socio-economic impacts on individual developing countries , be undertaken . These efforts should also strive to improve the effectiveness of current modelling activities for assessing the impact of implemented response measures in areas such as : Data sets ( technology , energy data , economic and social indicators ) ; Development of assumptions that are widely accepted based on standardized approaches so as to improve the effectiveness and speed of the process , and reduce costs ; Verification of existing data ; Improving the models so that they can address implemented rather than potential policies and measures ; Establishment of baseline data . Enhancing the participation of developing country experts in modelling efforts Several initiatives and support programmes have been launched in the past five to eight years to advance scientific knowledge on climate change impacts and vulnerability , to build capacities on methods to assess vulnerability and adaptation and identify adaptation measures , and to provide related training tools and materials , especially for developing countries . Some notable initiatives funded by the Global Environment Facility ( GEF ) were implemented since 1993 , such as the UNDP / GEF CC : Train Programme ( executed by UNITAR ) , the UNDP-PICCAP project and most recently the UNDP / GEF National Communications Support Programme . An evaluation conducted on some of the existing training initiatives on modelling revealed that current software is restricted in its coverage of observed data sets to four large geographic regions ( Europe , South Asia , North America and southern Africa ) . This resolution is too coarse for some countries or regions , especially for Small Island Developing States ( SIDS ) and mountainous countries . A second constraint is a lack of consideration of inter-annual climate variability . Two other concerns were the lack of models and related technical material in languages other than English , and the high costs to acquire modelling tools and their related training material . Developing country participants reiterated the urgent need for support for data collection . In order to maintain the quality of these methods and methodologies and update them to the needs of users , ongoing support is also needed for periodic revision , training for their utilization and interpretation , and translation and dissemination of information on the models into official UN languages for developing countries . Models applicable to developing countries are currently being developed , but there is a need for capacity-building and more involvement of experts from these countries , and in particular from the poorest economies . Such efforts are expected not only to help in customizing models to the needs of these countries , but also to integrate the results of modelling tools into policy and strategy development . Participants mentioned the following key issues as possible areas for further consideration : Utilizing national communications as a useful channel for disseminating information on modelling . Annex I Parties could include information on support for non-Annex I countries to improve their capacity in modelling activities and to assess their vulnerability under Article 4.8 and 4.9 of the Convention . Non-Annex I Parties could include in their national communications information relating to their capacity-building needs for modelling , and on activities completed or under way in this regard . Making available detailed information on the logic and data needs of individual models , and compiling and disseminating information on generic modelling methods and tools . Ensuring cost-effectiveness in funding modelling activities and disseminating modelling results , through increased collaboration among existing national , regional and international entities engaged in data gathering and data management for climate impact models , such as WMO , WHO , FAO and UNEP , as well as non-governmental organizations ( NGOs ) . For economic models , collaboration with the United Nations Statistical Office ( UNSO ) and other UN agencies , the World Bank , OECD , OPEC , IEA , and others , should be enhanced . Providing capacity-building to developing country experts for constructing and strengthening data sets , improving the quality of analytical tools , and disseminating results of these efforts in sectors that can contribute to climate change impact analysis , and for the development of models to assess impacts of response measures . As a first step , this could be accomplished by increasing the participation of developing country experts in the technical work conducted by relevant organizations such as IPCC , FAO , IEA , and OECD , and increasing cooperation on modelling activities among UN organizations and other agencies and research institutions and universities in the South . In establishing such links experts in developing countries can be trained to use the models and interpret the results , so as to be able to make the right choices using existing multilateral and bilateral arrangements . Mobilizing the process of implementation of Article 6 of the Convention on education , training and public awareness , with the objective of enhancing the participation of developing country experts in the international modelling development process , in particular in the context of Article 6 ( a ) ( iii ) and 6 ( b ) ( ii ) . Continuing research on improving model quality by building upon the work already compiled by the IPCC in the Third Assessment Report . The IPCC may also wish to consider increasing the participation of developing country experts in the preparation of future IPCC assessments on modelling activities . Compiling and disseminating information on modelling methods and tools for assessing the vulnerability to the adverse effects of climate change and the impact of the implementation of response measures under Article 4.8 of the Convention . This could include the preparation of a catalogue of existing models currently in use . The catalogue could categorize models in terms of attributes for decision-making and selection of models , including information on their use , cost , data requirements , coverage , strengths and limitations , as well as contact information . The catalogue could also clarify similarities and differences between models , and the appropriateness of the use of certain models for specific circumstances , sectors or regions , and would include examples of the successful application of such models , particularly in developing countries . Enhancing the Stakeholder consultation process at all stages of model specification , validation and acceptance ."	Information/Explanation
1462	"Forgiveness and Psychology Until the 1980s the theory and practice of forgiveness remained largely the province of the world's religious traditions . However during the last two decades of the 20th Century and into the 21st , the topic has attracted increasing interest within the field of Psychology . In 2006 , the American Psychological Association ( APA ) published a brochure summarizing examples of research on the topic of forgiveness . That the APA would publish such a brochure shows the degree to which forgiveness has gained traction as a meaningful topic for psychological research . In that brochure the APA offered a comprehensive definition of forgiveness ( adapted from a doctoral dissertation by C. Philpot , PhD from the University of Queensland in Australia . ) It reads as follows : Forgiveness is a process ( or the result of a process ) that involves a change in emotion and attitude regarding an offender . Most scholars view this an intentional and voluntary process , driven by a deliberate decision to forgive . This process results in decreased motivation to retaliate , and letting go of negative emotions toward the offender . Theorists differ in the extent to which they believe forgiveness also implies replacing the negative emotions with positive attitudes including compassion and benevolence . In any event , forgiveness occurs with the victim's full recognition that he or she deserved better treatment , one reason why Mahatma Gandhi contended that "" the weak can never forgive . Forgiveness is an attribute of the strong . "" ( For this quote with full references , see the APA brochure "" Forgiveness : A Sampling of Research Results , "" p. 5 . For further discussion of the definition of forgiveness and how it differs from categories such as morality , duty , justice , and reconciliation , see "" About Forgiveness "" by the International forgiveness Institute . A significant degree of the credit for the emergence of forgiveness as a mainstream concern of Psychology goes to three pioneers in the field . The first is Robert Enright , PhD , of the University of Wisconsin ( Madison ) and co-founder of the International Forgiveness Institute . Second is Everett Worthington , PhD , Virginia Commonwealth University ( VCU ) Professor of Psychology and head of both Fetzer Institute's "" Forgiveness Research Working Group "" and "" A Campaign for Forgiveness "" at The John Templeton Foundation . The third pioneer is Frederic Luskin , PhD , co-founder and Director of the Stanford Forgiveness Project and faculty member of the Institute for Transpersonal Psychology . Robert Enright Robert Enright is generally considered the father of forgiveness work within the field of Psychology . Enright took a huge professional risk turning his research to the topic of forgiveness . His colleagues at that time saw forgiveness as an inappropriate or weak research topic and suggested that he was foolish to focus on it . Fortunately Enright would not be dissuaded . Among his early forgiveness studies were those focusing on elderly women , love-deprived late adolescents , men whose partners had chosen abortion , and substance-dependent in-patients . He also developed the Enright Forgiveness Inventory , a psychometric instrument used in forgiveness research . Enright's work includes looking at what he calls the triad of forgiveness : forgiving , receiving forgiveness , and self-forgiveness . He suggests that greater clarity for the therapist utilizing a forgiveness intervention comes when all three aspects of the triad are kept in mind . Specifically with regard to forgiving , Enright has developed a four-phase intervention model , "" Processes of Forgiving Another . "" He calls his four phases uncovering , decision , work , and outcome . These four stages are further divided into a total of 20 discrete steps . ( Go to Baskin TW , and Enright RD , ( 2004 ) . Intervention Studies on Forgiveness : A Meta-Analysis . J Counseling & Development 83 ( 1 ) : 79-90 , page 80 , Table 1 for the details of Enright's model . ) In 2004 , together with Thomas Baskin , Enright published a watershed meta-analysis of forgiveness research studies to that date . The intent of their study was to compare different forgiveness interventions both for their effectiveness in increasing levels of forgiveness and for their impact on other mental health issues , such as depression and anxiety . Enright and Baskin analyzed the results from nine published articles , finding that the interventions therein fell into three distinct categories . The first they labeled decision-based . In this approach the interventions were individual and short term ( 1-6 sessions ) with the focus on the conscious , willful decision to forgive . They emphasized a cognitive therapeutic approach . The other two categories were described as process-based . They each entailed a sequence of stages as part of a gradual process leading eventually to forgiveness . In addition to cognitive elements , the process-based interventions also included affective and empathic components . Process-based interventions were further divided into two categories depending on whether the intervention was administered in a group setting ( 6-8 sessions ) or in individual therapy ( 12 to 60 sessions ) . Enright and Baskin found that the decision-based interventions showed little effect either for cultivating forgiveness or for related mental health benefits . However both the group and individual process-based interventions showed strong positive effects . Participants in group interventions did as well or better than 75 % of the control group with regard to development of forgiveness . Regarding other mental health constructs , 65 % equaled or outperformed those receiving no intervention . The comparable results for those receiving individual interventions were 95 % and 92 % respectively , exceptionally robust findings for psychological research , showing that individual process-based interventions were clearly the most effective . The authors suggest further study of the efficacy of process-based forgiveness interventions with clients suffering from mood and anxiety disorders where the etiology involves "" anger borne out of unfair treatment . "" ( For Baskin and Enright's article see Intervention Studies on Forgiveness : A Meta-Analysis . ) Everett Worthington Everett Worthington is the author , co-author or editor of several books on forgiveness . As co-author of To Forgive Is Human : How to Put Your Past in the Past ( 1997 ) , he had just completed the first draft when he found himself facing his own extraordinary personal test of forgiveness . Early on the morning of January 1 , 1996 , Dr. Worthington received a call from his brother who had just discovered the body of his brutally murdered mother on the floor of her Knoxville home . For a poignant written account of this event in his life , see "" Everett Worthington's Reach for Forgiveness . "" Dr. Worthington teaches courses on Positive Psychology and psychological measurement in addition to one entitled "" Forgiveness : Theory , Research , and Practice . "" He is also an expert on the interface between psychology and Christianity , his own personal faith . He has written extensively on the topics of forgiveness , marriage , and hope . His research focuses on these topics , but also expands them to include justice and social harmony . Dr. Worthington has developed what he calls "" The Pyramid Model to REACH Forgiveness . "" This process-based approach to the cultivation of forgiveness has six components described as follows : defining ( D ) forgiveness and comparing it with related concepts such as reconciliation , recalling ( R ) the hurt in a nonthreatening environment , building empathy ( E ) for the offender , encouraging an altruistic ( A ) response to the hurt based on experiences when the participants had themselves been forgiven , facilitating a commitment ( C ) to forgive the individual , and helping the participants maintain or hold ( H ) on to their forgiveness . ( Wade NG , Worthington E , and Haake S , ( 2009 ) Comparison of Explicit Forgiveness Interventions With an Alternative Treatment : A Randomized Clinical Trial . J Counseling & Development 87 ( 2 ) : 143-151 , p. 145 . ) Worthington's REACH model has been manualized into 20-hour and 6-hour group intervention protocols , each available for download free of cost in a secular or a Christian version . SEE VIDEO of Worthington describing the stages in his forgiveness process-based intervention . Frederic Luskin Frederic Luskin is a licensed Educational Psychologist , a Nationally-Certified School Psychologist and an MFT . He came to the study of forgiveness through the painful personal experience of being inexplicably betrayed and abandoned by a close friend and business associate during graduate school . As he puts it , "" I was badly hurt by a friend of mine and it threw my life upside down . "" Luskin found that he was simply unable to forgive . In the midst of this personal crisis and in the need of a dissertation topic , Luskin decided to see what he could learn by focusing his doctoral research on forgiveness . His choice of a dissertation on forgiveness eventually led him to the forefront of this emerging field within Psychology . Luskin gradually developed his own way of helping others forgive . According to him "" Forgiveness is a teachable skill ; you can learn it just the way you learn to play the piano . "" ( "" Forgiveness Boosts Health , "" Arthritis Today Magazine ) His approach , which he considers educational rather than psychotherapeutic , nonetheless incorporates elements of cognitive therapy along with mindfulness and Buddhist lovingkindness meditation . His forgiveness courses typically have once-a-week meetings , 60-90 minutes each , for 5-8 weeks . Elements of his approach are evident in his definition of forgiveness as follows : On his "" Forgive for Good "" website , Luskin offers the following list of nine steps in the forgiveness process as he teaches it . Luskin's teaching goals emphasize skills which go beyond the forgiving of a particular person and the offensive actions that have occurred . Rather he seeks to help people develop a lifestyle characterized by forgiveness . "" The essence of forgiveness "" he says "" is the ability to be resilient when things do n't go the way you want . "" This resilience is possible for us , as human beings , because "" we have been given the gift of the ability to make choices . "" Luskin describes four stages in coming to this kind of resilience . The first stage is when we are still caught in our angry responses to life's painful experiences . At the second stage , we 've begun to notice that responding with anger is painful and have taken concrete steps and made clear decisions towards forgiveness leading eventually to an actual experience of forgiveness . At stage three , having recognized , in our own experience , the positive benefits of forgiveness , we respond to future hurt by turning to forgiveness more quickly . We realize that how long we suffer from a painful experience is largely our choice . In the final stage , our ability to forgive is so deeply ingrained that we rarely take offense or get angry at the behavior of others . Rather our response , or choice , of forgiveness is automatic and immediate . Luskin's own research interests lie in measuring the impact of his manual-based , cognitive behavioral group interventions on such factors as the capacity for forgiveness , anger management , and hypertension . His work also looks at the differences regarding forgiveness between men and women and role of trait-based versus state-based anger . Training Resources The University of Wisconsin offers a 3-credit , independent learning extension course entitled Psychology and Education of Forgiveness . For a reading list and more information , see Forgiveness Institute - Extension Course . To participate in an on-line training by Dr. Luskin entitled "" Forgive for Good and The Process of Forgiveness Course "" visit eMindful - Forgive for Good ."	Information/Explanation
1256	"inq is inviting submissions of undergraduate student writing and research exploring the theme "" Culture at the Crossroads "" . We are seeking works that explore the myriad ways in which culture has taken shape and found voice , and encourage submissions that will help further expand our collective understanding of the world through historical analysis and contemporary vision . As a journal of interdisciplinary studies , inq welcomes student work from across the academic spectrum . Submissions might include , though not be limited to , questions , concerns , and commentary from economic and ecological perspectives , scientific and artistic paradigms , and political and psychological conditions . Submissions might explore the theme "" Culture at the Crossroads "" from positions relating to : Literary Movements Cultural Colonialism Deforestation Popular Culture Micro / Macro Social Dynamics Urbanization Media Consolidation Fashion Trends & Practices Pedagogical Theory Avante-Garde Strategies Industrialization Isolationism Advancing Information Technologies Undergraduate students who wish to submit to inq may regard the aforementioned subjects as not exhaustive and only representative of the breadth and scope of subjects we are willing to consider for our upcoming issue on "" Culture at the Crossroads "" ."	Promotion
832	Mr. J. Powell Davies . Two stalwarts of the Science Department - Mr. Dobson and Mr. Delves . The Maths Department in festive mood . Hats and legs . Mr. MacAleavey , Mr. Ross and Mr. Dixon in Switzerland . The Staff about 1938 . The Staff about 1959 . The first Eleven Plus intake in 1949 with Mr. Cooper . James Raven , National Winner of the English Speaking Union , with the Duke of Edinburgh in 1976 . A product of the Metalwork Department in 1965 . Form 1G in 1966 . The Lower Sixth of 1968 . The Upper Sixth of 1968 . Hockey Team 1949 . Tennis Team about 1968 . Athletics Team 1946 . Football Team 1948 . Second Year Rugby Team 1967 . Third Year Cricket Team 1964 . Farewell to North Hill Reunion , 6 July 1985 , with a youthful Mr. Anderson , former Deputy Head . In the Small Hall . The last pupils at North Hill . Staff and pupils of the Lower Sixth , July 1985 .	Information/Explanation
1023	General Conditions of Contract 8 . Use of AWE plc Property Except with the consent in writing of AWE plc , the Contractor shall not make use of : - the Contract or any specification , plan , drawing , sample , pattern , or any other information issued by or on behalf of AWE plc in connection therewith ; any articles , materials or fittings which are , or may become , the property of AWE plc under the Contract ; any AWE plc property issued in connection with the Contract ; for any purpose other than the performance of the Contract . Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 4 of General Condition 21 , the provisions of this General Condition 8 are to be included in all sub-contracts placed by the Contractor .	Legal
1173	SUBMISSION OF WORKSHOP PAPERS The TSD 2016 conference will be accompanied by a one-day satellite workshop The main topic of the workshop is directed at building new language resources , especially for languages with no or too little existing language resources . See http://www.tsdconference.org/tsd2016/conf_workshop.html for details . Authors are now invited to submit workshop papers within the second call for papers . All accepted CBBLR workshop papers will be published in a separate workshop proceedings with ISBN . SUBMISSION OF DEMONSTRATION ABSTRACTS Authors are invited to present actual projects , developed software and hardware or interesting material relevant to the topics of the conference . The authors of the demonstrations should provide the abstract not exceeding one page as plain text . The submission must be made using the online form available at the conference www pages . The accepted demonstrations will be presented during a special Demonstration Session ( see the Demo Instructions at www.tsdconference.org ) . Demonstrators can present their contribution with their own notebook with an Internet connection provided by the organisers or the organisers can prepare a PC computer with multimedia support for demonstrators . The demonstration abstracts will not appear in the Proceedings of TSD 2016 , they will be published electronically at the conference website . IMPORTANT DATES August 3 2016 ............ Submission of CBBLR workshop papers August 8 2016 ............ Submission of demonstration abstracts August 15 2016 ........... Notification of acceptance for workshop papers and demonstrations sent to the authors September 12-16 2016 ..... Conference date KEYNOTE SPEAKERS Hinrich Schuetze , University of Munich , Germany Embeddings ! For which objects ? For which objectives ? Ido Dagan , Bar-Ilan University , Israel Natural Language Knowledge Graphs Elmar Noeth , Friedrich-Alexander-Universitaet , Germany Remote Monitoring of Neurodegeneration through Speech The conference is organized by the Faculty of Informatics , Masaryk University , Brno , and the Faculty of Applied Sciences , University of West Bohemia , Pilsen . The conference is supported by International Speech Communication Association . Venue : Brno , Czech Republic The TSD 2016 conference will be directly followed by a meeting of working group WG3 of the ISCH COST Action IS 1305 TOPICS Topics of the conference will include ( but are not limited to ) : Papers on processing of languages other than English are strongly encouraged .	Promotion
674	ur people Delivering exceptional customer experiences is a key factor in differentiating a business from its competition . At Loop , experience has taught us that ensuring our employees are happy and feel supported at work is key to providing excellent customer service for our clients . We are well known for our forward thinking human resources operation and firmly believe that our people are our greatest asset . To ensure that we stand out from the rest , we invest heavily in training and development and constantly review and improve our policies for the benefit of all who work here . To be consistently placed in the Sunday Times , â € ̃ 100 Best Companies to Work Forâ € TM is a fabulous achievement and is testament to the hard work of all the employees of the company . Loop was also the first ever non public sector organisation to achieve the Charter Mark for Service Excellence and have maintained the Investors in People Award since 2001 . These are in addition to a host of other awards which can be found in our achievements	Promotion
492	"Gazan butcher Mohammed Hadad opens the door to a walk-in fridge , releasing a pungent smell of rotting meat into his shop . The military action has come as Gaza suffers food shortages With Gaza facing rolling power cuts after an Israeli airstrike hit Gaza City's only power plant , Mr Hadad's refrigerators are no longer operational . Large cuts of lamb hanging from steel hooks are spoiling . Until now , Mr Hadad has been moving the meat between his home and shop depending on where there is electricity . But now he is stumped - there is no power in either building . "" In three hours it will be completely spoilt , "" he says , standing under a motionless roof fan . "" We need to find a solution to this . "" Guns and butter Palestinians in the Gaza Strip are feeling more besieged than usual as the tense stand-off continues with Israel over the fate of a captured soldier held in the territory . Butcher Mohammed Hadad is seeing his meat turn rotten The international community cut aid to the Palestinians in March when Hamas took office . Palestinians will tell you things have got worse . Every few hours , sonic booms rattle the city , waking people from their sleep and setting off car alarms . Israel has shelled targets in the territory . With no supplies coming into the territory from Israel , food and fuel is running short here , and some international aid agencies are warning of a possible humanitarian crisis if the blockade continues . Israel says its military operation will end if the kidnapped Cpl Gilad Shalit is freed and there is an end to rocket attacks into Israel from northern Gaza . Israel says it is hoping to pressurise the militants into releasing the soldier . But until now this has not happened . Deal hope Like Mr Hadad , many Palestinians want an end to their latest hardship . But most believe that Israel must release Palestinian prisoners in exchange for the 19-year-old soldier's life . Petrol supplies are running low "" There needs to be more negotiations , "" says Mr Hadad . "" A prisoner exchange is the only way to resolve this crisis . "" Across the city , people have been looking for fuel for their cars and also to power their generators . Ataf Timraz , 30 , whose family owns two petrol stations and supplies fuel to 30 others , says that they have run out of fuel . As he sits in his office , a worker hoses down the garage forecourt and waves customers away . "" People think we have stored petrol , that we 're hiding it , "" says Mr Timraz , explaining people's frustrations . Family history Most Palestinians are trying to carry on with their daily lives , but the threat looms of a major Israeli military operation . Why should we release the soldier for nothing ? Zami Shalouf Beit Hanoun In Beit Hanoun , a town in northern Gaza , residents are tense about a major Israeli military operation . This is the site from where many of the rockets are fired by Palestinians into Israel . Zamil Shalouf , 27 , whose house lies 100 metres from the border , says his wife and one-year-old son left the house three days ago to live with a relative . They were fearful of a possible major military incursion . But Mr Shalouf insists that those holding the soldier must extract a price from Israel . "" An Israeli shell killed my brother in his house , "" he says . "" He was n ' t a militant . Why should we release the soldier for nothing ? """	News
1184	Dear Garry , Ever since my sister was diagnosed with insert condition in insert year , I 've been searching long and hard for ways to fight this terrible disease . This year , I think I found a great one . I 'm going to be walking 100 miles in the name of finding a cure . As part of my participation in this walk , I 'm required to raise insert amount to be donated directly to the insert name of charity walk is for . Your donation of any amount would be a great help toward my reaching this goal . You can choose to pledge by mile or just make a contribution of a sum of your choice . If you 'd like to sponsor me , you can send me a check made payable to insert payable details or donate online at insert donation website . All donations are tax deductible , and your generosity will play a role in the efforts to find a cure for this dreadful disease . Thank you so much for your support . I will think of you proudly as I bravely pound the pavement . Sincerely , Theresa Newman	Promotion
1679	"NASA / TRACE / SMEX A transit is when one astronomical body passes in front of another . When Johannes Kepler was preparing tables of celestial events and planetary positions for the years 1629 to 1636 , he paid special attention to any possible transits of Mercury and Venus in front of the Sun . With the invention of the telescope , Kepler believed it would be possible to definitively observe a planetary transit . He calculated a Mercury transit for November 7 , 1631 . Kepler was not too sure about his calculations , so he urged astronomers to also observe both the day before and the day after . Kepler died on November 15 , 1630 . The next November astronomers eagerly awaited the transit . There was poor weather in Europe , so only a handful of astronomers saw the transit . About 9 AM on the 7th , just a few hours off from Kepler's prediction , a small spot started to move across the Sun . All who saw it thought it was a sunspot at first , because the then-accepted size of Mercury was much larger than reality . However , ideas about the size of Mercury ( and the other planets ) predated the telescope . The scale of things in the solar system changed that day . From Kepler's time on , the orbit of Mercury was determined more precisely . With Newton's law of gravitation , the orbits of the planets were explained . After the discovery of Uranus in 1781 , discrepancies in its orbit led to the prediction and discovery of Neptune in 1846 . French astronomer Urbain-Jean-Joseph Le Verrier began work on the Uranus problem in 1845 , and on September 23 , 1846 , he asked Johann Gottfried Galle of Berlin to look for the planet . Galle discovered Neptune that evening . With Uranus solved , Le Verrier turned his attention to the other big discrepancy in the solar system , the advancement of the perihelion of Mercury ( where Mercury is closest to the Sun ) . This point moved , and adding in the effects of all the other planets explained most but not all of this movement . Le Verrier knew the solution : there was another planet inside Mercury's orbit . On March 26 , 1859 , Edmonde Lescarbault , a French physician and avid amateur astronomer , saw a spot cross the Sun and took detailed notes . Lescarbault later read about Le Verrier's theory about Vulcan and contacted him . Le Verrier was convinced that Lescarbault had observed a new planet . After Le Verrier gave his stamp of approval to Lescarbault's observations , Vulcan became a heated subject in astronomy . Some claimed to have observed it ; others reported that they could see no such planet . Vulcan lost some of its luster as an explanation for Mercury's strange procession , but there was not really a better explanation available . The answer turned out to be something even more radical than a new planet . Since 1905 German physicist Albert Einstein had struggled to incorporate gravitation into his theory of relativity . In 1915 he succeeded . Gravity was not a force stretching across space as Newton had thought but mass causing a curvature in space-time , the very fabric of the universe . That November Einstein gave four lectures to the Prussian Academy of Sciences about his new theory of general relativity . In the third lecture , on the 18th , Einstein explained the perihelion of Mercury "" without the special hypotheses that had to assume . "" From first principles , Einstein calculated the advancement of Mercury's perihelion . ( He went on to figure out the perihelion advancement of Venus , Earth , and Mars but noted that their values seemed to be so small that only Mercury's could be observed . He graciously concluded his paper , "" I will however gladly allow professional astronomers a final say . "" ) Since Mercury is so close to the Sun , it is hard to see any surface features . On those occasions ( called elongations ) when Mercury was at its farthest from the Sun , the same vague surface features were always seen . Astronomers who attempted to map Mercury thus agreed that the planet probably had a rotation period as long as its orbital period . Its day was as long as its year : 88 days . Beginning on April 6 , 1965 , radio astronomers Gordon Pettengill and Rolf Dyce used the large 305-meter ( 1 , 000-foot ) radio telescope at Arecibo in Puerto Rico to bounce radio signals off the planet . They found that Mercury had a rotation period that was two-thirds of its year , or 58.7 days . The elongations of Mercury had been occurring every 350 days . This is close to six times its rotation period , so Mercury was always in the same position at elongation . NASA / JPL Mariner 10 was the first spacecraft to visit Mercury . It was launched in November 1973 and flew by Venus in February 1974 . It flew by Mercury twice that year , on March 29 and September 21 . During its final flyby on March 16 , 1975 , Mariner 10 came within 327 km ( 203 miles ) of Mercury's surface . Mariner 10 took the first close-up images of Mercury , but because it arrived when the same hemisphere was facing the Sun , it was able to map only about half the planet . However , Mariner 10 showed that Mercury is an airless cratered world , like the Moon . It also discovered the immense multiringed basin of Caloris , a remnant of a huge collision early in the solar system's history . Courtesy of John Harmon , Arecibo Observatory Scientists from the California Institute of Technology and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on this date and later on August 23 made a radar map of Mercury , specifically the side that Mariner 10 did not photograph . They used the giant 70-meter ( 230-foot ) dish at Goldstone Deep Space Communications Complex as the transmitter and the 26 antennas of the Very Large Array as the receiver . Much to their surprise , they saw a strong reflection from Mercury's north pole . This reflection was similar to that seen from the polar ice caps of Mars and the ice-covered moons of Jupiter . Later observations by radar and the Messenger spacecraft ( see next item ) showed that despite Mercury's closeness to the Sun , ice – likely brought in cometary collisions – could survive at the bottom of permanently shadowed craters . If people ever visited Mercury , this ice would be a vital resource . NASA / JHU / APL / Carnegie Institution of Washington After Mariner 10's last flyby , no spacecraft visited Mercury until Messenger , which became the first spacecraft to orbit the planet . Messenger ( MErcury Surface , Space ENvironment , GEochemistry , and Ranging ) was launched in August 2004 and flew by Mercury three times before it settled into orbit . Messenger completely mapped Mercury's surface . It confirmed the water ice that had been seen by Arecibo . It also found evidence that there had been past volcanic activity and that the planet's core was much larger than previously believed , extending out 85 percent of the way to Mercury's surface . Messenger ran out of fuel and crashed onto the planet's surface in April 2015 ."	Information/Explanation
1220	"Smart motorways catch more than 1,000 speeding drivers a week More than 1,000 motorists a week are being caught speeding on the UK's smart motorways , police figures suggest . Last year , 52,516 fixed penalties were issued on 11 smart sections , including on stretches of the M1 , M25 and M6 . This compared to 2,023 on the same stretches in 2010-11 , before they were upgraded to smart motorways - which use the hard shoulder and variable speed limits to control traffic flow . The government says they are used to improve capacity , not generate revenue . Smart motorways are operated by Highways England , which uses overhead gantries - also containing speed cameras - to direct traffic into open lanes and change speed limits depending on the volume of traffic . There are more than 236 miles of smart motorways in England . A further 200 miles of smart motorways are currently either planned or under construction . Revenue increased The BBC's One Show asked 12 police forces in England that monitor major stretches of smart motorway , including parts of the M1 , M25 , M4 , M42 and M6 , for the total number of speeding tickets and fines collected . The majority of forces responded , with half supplying directly comparable data , showing that a total of 52,516 tickets had been issued on these stretches in 2014-15 , compared to 2,023 in 2010-11 . That meant the revenue going to central government every year increased to more than £ 1 . 1m , from £ 150 , 600 five years ago . There is just one stretch of smart motorway in Scotland - on the M9 - which saw the annual number of tickets issued increase from nine to 41 over the four years . Almost 250 people were caught speeding in the first three days after enforcement was introduced on the M4 , near Newport . The system had been introduced in 2011 but was inactive for five years . On one section of the M1 in Nottinghamshire , police issued 8,489 tickets , amounting to £ 425 , 000 of fines , in 2015 . Source : Relevant police forces Nottingham-based motoring lawyer Paul Wright said he had seen a "" deluge "" of cases along one stretch of the M1 . He told the BBC : "" A cynic might say that it 's another way of getting more and more money out of the motorist , over and above what we 're paying already . "" And it 's an easy way to extract fines from people , because once you 're clocked over the limit by the camera , it 's very difficult to fight against that . "" And the AA told The One Show "" questions need to be answered about the money being recouped "" . It has also raised safety concerns about drivers having to use emergency refuge areas when the hard shoulder is removed to operate as an extra lane . AA president Edmund King said more emergency refuges were needed and they should be twice as long , adding : "" Only a couple of weeks ago one of our members broke down on a smart motorway . There was a red ' X ' up but they still got hit from behind . "" Cut congestion With motorway traffic forecast to increase by up to 60 % from 2010 rates by 2040 , the government is pressing ahead with its £ 6bn investment in smart motorways . A spokesman for the Department for Transport said : "" Smart motorways smooth traffic flow and cut congestion for millions of motorists , with evidence from trials showing they are just as safe as regular motorways . "" Enforcement is a matter for the police and it is clear that speeding costs lives . However , we have been clear for a number of years that speed cameras should not be used to generate revenue . "" Shaun Pidcock , from Highways England - which has published advice for motorists on smart motorways - said they were "" the safest motorways on the network "" . "" We have 100 % CCTV coverage and we have people watching over them , making sure they 're safe , and we can get people in the traffic office to them far safer and quicker than we can do on normal motorways . "" For a full report , watch The One Show on BBC One , at 19 : 00 GMT on Monday 7 November ."	News
703	Situated in its own leafy grounds , 50 metres from the centre of Talloires and just a short stroll from the lake , this traditional family-run hotel is in a beautiful setting and offers high levels of service and cuisine . Bedrooms : 44 . All bedrooms are comfortably furnished and have bath , wc , hairdryer , telephone and TV . Most take a third bed . Smaller village side rooms with shower are also available . Lake / garden side rooms and single rooms ( on request ) are available at a supplement . Meals : Continental buffet breakfast and excellent 4 course dinner . Facilities : Attractive restaurant , comfortable lounge , bar service , shaded terrace , outdoor heated swimming pool , lift . Official rating : 3 star • Family Specials In addition : Welcome drink Free winetasting once each week	Promotion
490	Mark Gavillet , ' no conferring ' , 1999 . Steel , fabric , foam , office chairs . A beginner's guide to shameless self-promotion 1 . Start exhibiting as soon as possible , preferably before you leave college . The key to getting work shown is to have a history of having shown work . The more diverse your CV , the more appealing it is . Aim above your expectations . There is always compromise involved - make sure it is on your side . Do not however expect to be paid . 2 . Consider exhibiting abroad . Use the novelty of being a foreign artist to your advantage . A list of international exhibitions on your CV gives the impression that your career is at a more advanced stage than it actually is . 3 . Do your homework and find out who can help you . Go to as many openings as possible until you meet that person . You are in a much better position when talking to someone who has enjoyed too much complimentary wine than you are when you phone their office . Discreetly work into the conversation who you are , what you do , and arrange to meet them at a later date . The art world can be a very incestuous place to be . Jump on the bandwagon .	Instruction
901	"But tell me , papa , what have the flowers to do with your coming home ? "" "" Why , just this , sweetheart , "" returned the sailor gravely ; "" all the time that it takes the cowslips and dingle-bells and cockle-shells to sprout from the ground , and grow big and strong , and blossom into flower , and , yes--to wither and die away again--all that time shall your brothers and I sail the seas . But when the cold winds begin to blow , and the flowers are gone , then , God willing , we shall come back to you ; and by that time you may have grown wiser and bigger , and I am sure you will have grown older . So one more kiss , sweetheart , and then we must go , for our time is up . "" The next morning , when Mary and her mother had dried their eyes , which had been wet with grief at the departure of their loved ones , the little girl asked earnestly , "" Mamma , may I make a flower-garden ? "" "" A flower-garden ! "" repeated her mother in surprise ; "" why do you wish a flower-garden , Mary ? "" "" I want to plant in it the cockle-shells and the cowslips and the dingle-bells , "" she answered . And her mother , who had heard what the sailor had said to his little girl , knew at once what Mary meant ; so she kissed her daughter and replied , "" Yes , Mary , you may have the flower-garden , if you wish . We will dig a nice little bed just at the side of the house , and you shall plant your flowers and care for them yourself . "" "" I think I ' d rather have the flowers at the front of the house , "" said Mary . "" But why ? "" enquired her mother ; "" they will be better sheltered at the side . "" "" I want them in front , "" persisted Mary , "" for the sun shines stronger there . "" "" Very well , "" answered her mother , "" make your garden at the front , if you will , and I will help you to dig up the ground . "" "" But I do n ' t want you to help , "" said Mary , "" for this is to be my own little flower-garden , and I want to do all the work myself . "" Now I must tell you that this little girl , although very sweet in many ways , had one serious fault . She was inclined to be a bit contrary , and put her own opinions and ideas before those of her elders . Perhaps Mary meant no wrong in this ; she often thought knew better how to do a thing than others did ; and in such a case she was not only contrary , but anxious to have her own way . And so her mother , who did not like her little daughter to be unhappy , often gave way to her in small things , and now she permitted Mary to make her own garden , and plant it as she would . So Mary made a long , narrow bed at the front of the house , and then she prepared to plant her flowers . "" If you scatter the seeds , "" said her mother , "" the flower-bed will look very pretty . "" Now this was what Mary was about to do ; but since her mother advised it , she tried to think of another way , for , as I said , she was contrary at times . And in the end she planted the dingle-bells all in one straight row , and the cockle-shells in another straight row the length of the bed , and she finished by planting the cowslips in another long row at the back . Her mother smiled , but said nothing ; and now , as the days passed by , Mary watered and tended her garden with great care ; and when the flowers began to sprout she plucked all the weeds that grew among them , and so in the mild spring weather the plants grew finely . "" When they have grown up big and strong , "" said Mary one morning , as she weeded the bed , "" and when they have budded and blossomed and faded away again , then papa and my brothers will come home . And I shall call the cockle-shells papa , for they are the biggest and strongest ; and the dingle-bells shall be brother Hobart , and the cowslips brother Robart . And now I feel as if the flowers were really my dear ones , and I must be very careful that they come to no harm ! "" She was filled with joy when one morning she ran out to her flower-garden after breakfast and found the dingle-bells and cowslips were actually blossoming , while even the cockle-shells were showing their white buds . They looked rather comical , all standing in stiff , straight rows , one after the other ; but Mary did not mind that ."	Prose/Lyrical
498	"Many in Croatia regard Gen Gotovina as a national hero The Vatican is helping Croatia's most wanted war crimes suspect evade capture , a top UN prosecutor alleges . Carla del Ponte , chief prosecutor for war crimes in the former Yugoslavia , has said she believes Gen Ante Gotovina is hiding in a monastery in Croatia . Ms del Ponte's spokeswoman told the BBC News website that the Vatican had refused to help in the search for him , despite being in a position to do so . A spokesman for the Croatian Catholic Church rejected the charges . In a statement later the Vatican said that Archbishop Giovanni Lajolo , responsible for the city-state's foreign relations , had asked Ms del Ponte for further details of her assertions . Chief spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said Ms del Ponte had not yet responded to requests for further information . Divided opinions Gen Gotovina has been charged with the deaths of 150 Serb civilians in 1995 . Earlier this year , the European Union cited Zagreb's failure to arrest him as the reason behind delaying talks on Croatia's entry into the bloc . Forces under Gen Gotovina's command are accused of killing scores of Serbs and expelling up to 200,000 from the Krajina region , now part of Croatia . Many in Croatia regard him as a national hero . Ms del Ponte wants the authorities to act against war criminals Croatian authorities have insisted they are doing everything in their power to deliver Gen Gotovina to the UN's war crimes tribunal in the Hague . The Croatian Bishops' Conference , which heads the Croatian Roman Catholic Church , dismissed Ms del Ponte's allegations . Its spokesman Antun Suljic said the conference "" has no knowledge or indications of the whereabouts "" of Gen Gotovina . Vatican ' refusal ' Ms del Ponte wrote to Pope Benedict XVI in July this year in an effort to secure the Vatican's co-operation , her spokeswoman told the BBC News website . The Pope has yet to reply to the prosecutor's request for a meeting , the spokeswoman said . Ms del Ponte earlier told British newspaper The Daily Telegraph she believed Gen Gotovina was "" hiding in a Franciscan monastery and so the Catholic Church is protecting him "" . "" I have taken this up with the Vatican and the Vatican totally refuses to co-operate with us , "" she said . Archbishop Lajolo told Ms del Ponte the Vatican did not know of Gen Gotovina's whereabouts and was not obliged to help her , she was quoted as saying . Her spokeswoman , Florence Hartmann , told the BBC News website that "" the law applies to everyone , including the Vatican "" . She said UN prosecutors faced similar difficulties in tracking down the Bosnian Serb war crimes suspect Radovan Karadzic , who is thought to have sought refuge among Orthodox Christian monks in Montenegro . "" We 're fully ecumenical , "" she said . E-mail this to a friend Printable version FROM OTHER NEWS SITES : Sydney Morning Herald * Vatican denies shielding accused war criminal - 6 hrs ago New York Times Church Denies Hiding War Crimes Suspect - 35 hrs ago Washington Post * U. N. Prosecutor Faults Vatican in Fugitive Hunt - 35 hrs ago Independent UN prosecutor sparks fury with claim Vatican is hiding alleged war criminal - 39 hrs ago ABC Online Vatican accused of shielding war crimes suspect - 39 hrs ag"	News
1005	New winter schedule unveiled by Monarch Scheduled Low cost airline , Monarch Scheduled , has launched its winter 2005 / 06 timetable . Increasing capacity by 41 % compared to last winter , the new schedule sees increased frequencies on the most popular routes from Luton as well as even more flights from the carrier's brand new base at Birmingham International Airport . Birmingham Highlights include : Flights to Alicante will increase from three per week to six per week until 17 December , then five per week thereafter , from just £ 45 one way ( £ 90 return ) including tax # Daily flights from just £ 45 one way ( £ 90 return ) including tax to Malaga continue , as do daily flights to Tenerife from just £ 70 one way ( £ 140 return )	News
1389	"What kind of professional business people can benefit from using a 24-hour message service ? Is it only for Doctor's and Dentist's Offices ? Would other professions benefit from having a live receptionist answer their phone 24 hours a day , 7 days a week ? Let 's take a look at that . The Office is a different place , these days . It 's no longer a big building , with cubby holes , and small partitions . An office nowadays is anywhere you set up your computer , or hold your cell phone . A lot of business people have now moved their offices into their own homes . Most people do n't have room for a receptionist in their bedroom , or kitchen , and would n't be able to afford the full-time salary anyway . But , there are a lot of reasons an answering service would be a workable solution for fields other than medical and dental . Attorneys have streamlined their operations . Many independent lawyers work from their homes . They would benefit by having an off-site receptionist answer their business telephone while they 're in court . The answering service can then text messages to them , and the attorney can respond at a court recess . People in the Real Estate business are also tending to work from their homes . They have to leave their home offices many times a day . They have to show houses to clients , and it would n't be very feasible for them to field calls . Entrepreneurs engage in starting up and running new businesses . Answering services make sense for them because they do n't have to incur the huge expense of another person on their payroll . They can also give the appearance of having an established company , with the off-site , professional receptionist . Entertainment Industry Companies are involved with different projects for limited amounts of time . There is a transitory nature to the business . Having a centralized , inexpensive answering service as their base of communications is a good idea . You never have to pay to move a virtual office . Anyone in the Construction and Landscaping business could cut out the expense of having an office , altogether . They perform their services at different outdoor places , all the time . This would also include Plumbers , Board-up and Glass Companies , and Roofers , etc. Restoration Companies are in a different category all together . They are involved in emergencies . The people who call them are in trouble , and never on a nine-to-five schedule . They need a communication base that is alert 24 hours a day . Security Guard Services is another field where they are never performing their duties at the same place . Therefore , a "" virtual office "" with 24 hour answering services is ideal . Many companies , today , are in the same situation . They do n't need the big offices , anymore . Technology has become advanced enough to allow them freedom . They can cut down on physical space , and the cost thereof . If you want to talk to a 24-hour Live Receptionist and Answering Service , there is one that is based in Los Angeles , called Global Messaging Network . They can answer any question you have , and give you exact prices on services that fit your needs . 800-244-4334 , info@globalmessaging.net , www.globalmessaging.net ."	Promotion
265	An Epsom mum has recently set up her own party planning company to help make children's birthday dreams come true . Marina Chalke , decided to start her business - called Littlepartyplanner - after the birth of her youngest son last year . ' Having organised my older children's parties in the past , I understood the importance of getting it just right for them ' explains Marina . ' I always wanted something special , but juggling work , a busy mum schedule and organising a party often meant I had bitten off more than I could chew ' . ' There is always so much to organise - did I go for a disco , an entertainer or bouncy castle ? What about the cake ? What about invites ? And where was I going to hold it ? Home was n ' t always a good option ! ' ' What I needed back then was an expert , who could offer advice on organising a successful party and deciding what kind of theme it should take , but there never seemed to be anyone in my local area to help with the intricate details ' . After having her little boy , Luca , in 2005 she wanted to help other busy mums so that they did not go through the same pressure . So she decided to become the expert herself . Under the guidance of national franchise company Mums in Control , she set about creating a business that meant she could work from home . ' Little Party Planners offers other busy parents the chance to hand over all the hard work that goes into organising a party for the kids , ' says Marina . ' I have a huge list of contacts in the local area , from musicians and venues to cake decorators and bouncy castles , this means the planning can be left to me . ' Parents let me have an idea of what they want and leave it to myself to organise . They just have to turn up with their children and their friends and know everything will be sorted for them . It takes so much pressure out of something that can cause so much anxiety . ' Unfortunately after all her initial hard work starting up her new venture , she stumbled across an obstacle . ' I wanted to approach mums after school , at the school gate where I could speak to them and hand out my leaflet ' she explains ' but as soon as I stepped out of my front door I could n ' t do it , my confidence had gone and I just did n't know how to conquer this fear ' . This is when the BBC came into play . They were putting together four , 6 minute programmes on going back to work after having a baby and were interested in talking to Marina . ' I was desperate to sort this glitch in my new business venture . I did n't know what had happened to me and needed guidance on how to get my confidence back ' . So with the help of TV Presenter Melinda Messenger and Careers Coach , John Lees she went ahead with the filming to help her readdress her confidence issues . ' John offered me some really good advice ' she says ' In my previous job roles I have been used to endorsing a product , this time the product was me and I was using the wrong approach ' . This realisation has helped Marina to get over the first hurdle of speaking to groups of mums and dads that she did n't know . ' I have since used Johns approach and everything is falling into place . ' Marina could n ' t be happier about how things are turning out . Being able to work from home has meant that she has been able to spend valuable time with her children . ' It 's the ideal business for anyone , like me , who wants to work but also wants to spend precious time with their children . I am able to fit in much of my planning around them , so I do n't feel I miss out on the important things , ' Marina adds . · For more details on Little Party Planners contact Marina Chalke on 0208 394 0702 or email : marinachalke @ littlepartyplanner . c o . u k . Little Party Planner is part of the Mums in Control Franchise network . For details on MiC visit the website : www . m umsincontrol . c o . u k , or call : 0870 0622212 .	Promotion
497	"Chinese President Hu Jintao has opened the world's highest railway , describing it as a "" magnificent feat "" . The Qinghai-Tibet line boasts high-tech engineering to stabilise tracks over permafrost and sealed cabins to protect passengers from the high altitude . China says the 1 , 140km ( 710-mile ) line will bring major opportunities to a poor region . But critics fear it will be used by China to assert its control over a contested border region . They also say the railway line threatens not only the delicate Himalayan environment , but also the ancient Tibetan culture . Red ribbon Mr Hu cut a red ribbon before the first train left Golmud in China's Qinghai province , carrying 900 passengers to the Tibetan capital , Lhasa . Follow the route of the China-Tibet railway "" This is a magnificent feat by the Chinese people , and also a miracle in world railway history , "" Mr Hu said . He said it showed China's people were "" ambitious , self-confident and capable of standing among the world's advanced nations "" . There have been protests against the railway , such as this in India Musicians in traditional Tibetan and Chinese dress banged drums and cymbals as thousands of workers who helped to build the line looked on . Minutes later , state TV showed another train departing Lhasa for Golmud . On Friday , three foreign activists were briefly detained at Beijing's central railway station on Friday after unfurling a banner that read : "" China's Tibet Railway : Designed to Destroy . "" At its highest point , the railway will reach 5 , 072m ( 16 , 640ft ) - beating by 225m a route through the Peruvian Andes that was previously the world's highest railway , the China Daily newspaper reports . In parts , the train line has been built on bridges elevated above the most unstable permafrost . Elsewhere , cooling pipes have been sunk into the ground to ensure it remains frozen to stabilise the tracks . QINGHAI-TIBET RAILWAY Connects Lhasa to existing China rail network New 1 , 140km stretch cost $ 4 . 2bn World's highest railway , reaching 5 , 072m Oxygen to be pumped into each carriage Restaurant car's rice cooked in pressure cookers , to mitigate effects of high altitude Beijing to Lhasa to take 48 hours , cost $ 50 - $ 160 one way In pictures : New railway Railway raises fears Send us your comments The train carriages have windows with ultra-violet filters to keep out the sun's glare , as well as carefully regulated oxygen levels with spare supplies to combat the thin air . Zhu Zhensheng of the Chinese railway ministry called the new line a "" major achievement "" that will "" hugely boost local development and benefit the local people "" . But exiled Tibetan Lhadon Tethong said the railway was "" engineered to destroy the very fabric of Tibetan identity "" . "" China plans to use the railway to transport Chinese migrants directly into the heart of Tibet in order to overwhelm the Tibetan population and tighten its stranglehold over our people , "" he said on a Free Tibet Campaign statement . The Dalai Lama , Tibet's spiritual leader in exile since 1959 , was more circumspect . "" The railway line itself is not a cause of concern for the Tibetan people , "" his spokesman , Thupten Samphel , said . "" How it will be used is the main concern . """	News
1536	CORE MESSAGE AREA : READING / LITERACY Introduction : The revision of the Reading / Literacy Core Messages was based on significant advances in the national research community concerning best practices to improve reading and literacy ( reading , writing , speaking , and listening across the curriculum areas ) . Two critical examples are the National Institute of Education Sciences 1 and the What Works Clearinghouse 2 , which provide resources to objectively evaluate programs and practices according to accepted rules of science . In addition , the creation of national Common Core Standards 3 along with the move towards organizing interventions in a Response to Intervention ( RTI ) 4 framework have created exciting and challenging new opportunities for improving outcomes for California's students . It is important to note that Reading is a part of the larger context of Academic Literacy . Academic Literacy is defined as the skills of reading / writing / speaking and listening that all work together across the content areas . This unified concept is clearly aligned with the Common Core Standards that use reading and literacy across the curricular areas and present both as a shared teaching responsibility .	Information/Explanation
278	"Women in focus : Crime and justice The police returned details on 26,000 incidents of domestic abuse recorded between April and December 1999 . However , the majority of incidents recorded ( 57 % ) comprised behaviour that did not lead to the recording of a crime or offence . If an incidence of domestic abuse did lead to a crime or offence being recorded , the most common occurrence was a recording of an offence of petty assault ( 21 % of all incidents ) or breach of the peace ( 18 % of all incidents ) . Crimes which are generally regarded as more serious than offences , were only recorded in respect of 5 % of all incidents . Where a crime was recorded , it was likely to be vandalism ( 1 . 6 % of all incidents ) or , a non-sexual crime of violence ( 1 . 5 % of all incidents ) . Males accounted for 87 % of all convictions in 1999 : more males than females were convicted for almost all crime and offence categories . The main exception to this was "" other "" crimes of indecency , where females accounted for 82 % of what are mainly offences related to prostitution . The other categories where females formed a higher than average proportion of those convicted included shoplifting ( 28 % ) , "" other theft "" ( 21 % ) , and the "" other "" miscellaneous offences category ( 15 % ) . The latter category mainly relates to non-payment of a television licence . These three categories accounted for 13 % , 7 % and 7 % respectively of all ; convictions for females : the corresponding proportions for males were 5 % , 4 % and 6 % ."	News
765	As well as the real power output of the wind farms , we were also given the yearly measurement data of 6 meteorological masts . This data was used to run a simulation of the wind speed hitting a single theoretical wind turbine . The simulation was then repeated , this time using the reanalysis data for the region . Below is the wind speed calculated using reanalysis data compared to the wind speed calculated using the real measured data .	Information/Explanation
368	The Web site of the Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils ( ISEO ) . This site provides resources relating to the edible fats and oils industry , including various published materials ; extensive information on fats and oils , nutrition , processing methods and related technical information ; statistics ; and contacts and links to manufacturers , refiners , trade associations , and government agencies . A ( members only ) library is available and individual study on trans fats , obesity and food allergies is given . The ISEO is a trade association representing the refiners of edible fats and oils in the United States . trans fatty acids ; trade associations ; statistics ; publications ; oils ; obesity ; food sciences ; fats ; IFST : Trans fatty acids This discussion , dated November 2004 , from the IFST ( Institute of Food Science & Technology ) provides information on the topic of trans fatty acids and their relevance to the food industry . A general overview of trans fatty acids is given , along with suggested food sources , possible health effects and details on current government legislation on food labelling . trans fatty acids ; labelling ; health hazards ; food industry ; Formulating food products with low trans fats This document by the Oklahoma State University Food and Agricultural Products Research and Technology Center discusses the production of low trans fat foods . The document gives an overview for manufacturers of what trans fats are , current fat replacers , and their use and limitations . The document is applicable to food production systems that wish to transfer away from trans fats . It is in pdf format and requires Adobe Acrobat Reader . trans fatty acids ; nutrition ; lipids ; food technology ; fat substitutes ; Trans fats , health , and nutritional labeling of foods This food technology fact sheet produced by the Oklahoma State University gives details on trans fats in foods . The document gives an overview of trans fats , which food typically contain trans fats and how American food manufacturers are obliged to label all foods containing trans fats . Examples of a revised nutrition facts labels and details of the trans fats content of a range of dairy products are given . This document is in pdf format and therefore requires Adobe Acrobat Reader .	Information/Explanation
687	Our Customer Care Charter has been developed so that we provide our customers with excellent service delivery . To find out more about our Customer Care Charter select the area you want from the table below : Customer Care Charter Area Description Our commitment to our customers Find out about our commitment to provide excellent customer service Customer care standards Our service standards for responding to telephone calls , emails , letters and visits from our customers Out of hours service Information about our out of hours contact service for emergencies Customers with special needs How we can help customers with special needs such as hearing difficulties Our performance Find out how we measure our customer service performance and what our future plans are	Promotion
979	Calendar elements allow you to easily add events and dates to your website . To add or delete events click the + / - button on the calendar . You 'll be asked for a username and password in a popup box . This is the same as your normal login . Then you 'll see a window that lets you add and delete events . These can be once off , once a month or once a year . Styling Calendar elements get their styles from the current look . However , you can change this by editing the page and clicking the styles toolbutton . You can then configure the colours that are used by the calendar .	Instruction
803	What is the main difference between first and second generation crises ? a . The first generation models are currency crises , while second generation models are both currency and financial crises . b . A currency crisis brings forward the inevitable in the first generation model due to weak fundamentals . A second generation crisis may or may not happen . c . They both share weak fundamentals , so a currency crisis is inevitable for both types of models . d . The first generation models are found in developing countries , while second generation models affect developed countries .	Information/Explanation
178	"Ad Hoc Committee established by General Assembly resolution 51 / 210 of 17 December 1996 Eighth session 28 June-2 July 2004 Consolidated text prepared by the Bureau of the Committee Draft International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism The States Parties to this Convention , Having in mind the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations concerning the maintenance of international peace and security and the promotion of good-neighbourliness and friendly relations and cooperation among States , Recalling the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations of 24 October 1995 , Recognizing the right of all States to develop and apply nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and their legitimate interests in the potential benefits to be derived from the peaceful application of nuclear energy , Bearing in mind the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material of 1980 , Deeply concerned about the worldwide escalation of acts of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations , Recalling also the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism , annexed to General Assembly resolution 49 / 60 of 9 December 1994 , in which , inter alia , the States Members of the United Nations solemnly reaffirm their unequivocal condemnation of all acts , methods and practices of terrorism as criminal and unjustifiable , wherever and by whomever committed , including those which jeopardize the friendly relations among States and peoples and threaten the territorial integrity and security of States , Noting that the Declaration also encouraged States to review urgently the scope of the existing international legal provisions on the prevention , repression and elimination of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations , with the aim of ensuring that there is a comprehensive legal framework covering all aspects of the matter , Recalling General Assembly resolution 51 / 210 of 17 December 1996 and the Declaration to Supplement the 1994 Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism annexed thereto , Recalling also that , pursuant to General Assembly resolution 51 / 210 , an ad hoc committee was established to elaborate , inter alia , an international convention for the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism to supplement related existing international instruments , Noting that acts of nuclear terrorism may result in the gravest consequences and may pose a threat to international peace and security , Noting also that existing multilateral legal provisions do not adequately address those attacks , Being convinced of the urgent need to enhance international cooperation between States in devising and adopting effective and practical measures for the prevention of such acts of terrorism and for the prosecution and punishment of their perpetrators , Noting that the activities of military forces of States are governed by rules of international law outside of the framework of this Convention and that the exclusion of certain actions from the coverage of this Convention does not condone or make lawful otherwise unlawful acts , or preclude prosecution under other laws , Have agreed as follows : Article 1 For the purposes of this Convention : "" Radioactive material "" means nuclear material and other radioactive substances which contain nuclides which undergo spontaneous disintegration ( a process accompanied by emission of one or more types of ionizing radiation , such as alpha - , beta - , neutron particles and gamma rays ) and which may , owing to their radiological or fissile properties , cause death , serious bodily injury or substantial damage to property or to the environment . "" Nuclear material "" means plutonium , except that with isotopic concentration exceeding 80 per cent in plutonium-238 ; uranium-233 ; uranium enriched in the isotopes 235 or 233 ; uranium containing the mixture of isotopes as occurring in nature other than in the form of ore or ore residue ; or any material containing one or more of the foregoing ; Whereby "" uranium enriched in the isotope 235 or 233 "" means uranium containing the isotope 235 or 233 or both in an amount such that the abundance ratio of the sum of these isotopes to the isotope 238 is greater than the ratio of the isotope 235 to the isotope 238 occurring in nature . "" Nuclear facility "" means : ( a ) Any nuclear reactor , including reactors installed on vessels , vehicles , aircraft or space objects for use as an energy source in order to propel such vessels , vehicles , aircraft or space objects or for any other purpose ; ( b ) Any plant or conveyance being used for the production , storage , processing or transport of radioactive material . "" Device "" means : ( a ) Any nuclear explosive device ; or ( b ) Any radioactive material dispersal or radiation-emitting device which may , owing to its radiological properties , cause death , serious bodily injury or substantial damage to property or the environment . "" State or government facility "" includes any permanent or temporary facility or conveyance that is used or occupied by representatives of a State , members of Government , the legislature or the judiciary or by officials or employees of a State or any other public authority or entity or by employees or officials of an intergovernmental organization in connection with their official duties . "" Military forces of a State "" means the armed forces of a State which are organized , trained and equipped under its internal law for the primary purpose of national defence or security and persons acting in support of those armed forces who are under their formal command , control and responsibility . Article 2 Any person commits an offence within the meaning of this Convention if that person unlawfully and intentionally : ( a ) Possesses radioactive material or makes or possesses a device : ( i ) With the intent to cause death or serious bodily injury ; or ( ii ) With the intent to cause substantial damage to property or the environment ; ( b ) Uses in any way radioactive material or a device , or uses or damages a nuclear facility in a manner which releases or risks the release of radioactive material : ( i ) With the intent to cause death or serious bodily injury ; or ( ii ) With the intent to cause substantial damage to property or the environment ; or ( iii ) With the intent to compel a natural or legal person , an international organization or a State to do or refrain from doing an act . Any person also commits an offence if that person : ( a ) Threatens , under circumstances which indicate the credibility of the threat , to commit an offence as set forth in subparagraph 1 ( b ) of the present article ; or ( b ) Demands unlawfully and intentionally radioactive material , a device or a nuclear facility by threat , under circumstances which indicate the credibility of the threat , or by use of force . Any person also commits an offence if that person attempts to commit an offence as set forth in paragraph 1 of the present article . Any person also commits an offence if that person : ( a ) Participates as an accomplice in an offence as set forth in paragraph 1 , 2 or 3 of the present article ; or ( b ) Organizes or directs others to commit an offence as set forth in paragraph 1 , 2 or 3 of the present article ; or ( c ) In any other way contributes to the commission of one or more offences as set forth in paragraph 1 , 2 or 3 of the present article by a group of persons acting with a common purpose ; such contribution shall be intentional and either be made with the aim of furthering the general criminal activity or purpose of the group or be made in the knowledge of the intention of the group to commit the offence or offences concerned . Article 3 This Convention shall not apply where the offence is committed within a single State , the alleged offender and the victims are nationals of that State , the alleged offender is found in the territory of that State and no other State has a basis under article 9 , paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 , to exercise jurisdiction , except that the provisions of articles 7 , 12 , 14 , 15 , 16 and 17 shall , as appropriate , apply in those cases . Article 4 Nothing in this Convention shall affect other rights , obligations and responsibilities of States and individuals under international law , in particular the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international humanitarian law . The activities of armed forces during an armed conflict , as those terms are understood under international humanitarian law , which are governed by that law are not governed by this Convention , and the activities undertaken by military forces of a State in the exercise of their official duties , inasmuch as they are governed by other rules of international law , are not governed by this Convention . The provisions of paragraph 2 of the present article shall not be interpreted as condoning or making lawful otherwise unlawful acts , or precluding prosecution under other laws . This Convention does not address , nor can it be interpreted as addressing , in any way , the issue of the legality of the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons by States . Article 5 Each State Party shall adopt such measures as may be necessary : ( a ) To establish as criminal offences under its national law the offences set forth in article 2 ; ( b ) To make those offences punishable by appropriate penalties which take into account the grave nature of these offences . Article 6 Each State Party shall adopt such measures as may be necessary , including , where appropriate , domestic legislation , to ensure that criminal acts within the scope of this Convention , in particular where they are intended or calculated to provoke a state of terror in the general public or in a group of persons or particular persons , are under no circumstances justifiable by considerations of a political , philosophical , ideological , racial , ethnic , religious or other similar nature and are punished by penalties consistent with their grave nature . Article 7 States Parties shall cooperate by : ( a ) Taking all practicable measures , including , if necessary , adapting their national law , to prevent and counter preparations in their respective territories for the commission within or outside their territories of the offences set forth in article 2 , including measures to prohibit in their territories illegal activities of persons , groups and organizations that encourage , instigate , organize , knowingly finance or knowingly provide technical assistance or information or engage in the perpetration of those offences ; ( b ) Exchanging accurate and verified information in accordance with their national law and in the manner of and subject to the conditions specified herein , and coordinating administrative and other measures taken as appropriate to detect , prevent , suppress and investigate the offences set forth in article 2 and also in order to institute criminal proceedings against persons alleged to have committed those crimes . In particular , a State Party shall take appropriate measures in order to inform without delay the other States referred to in article 9 in respect of the commission of the offences set forth in article 2 as well as preparations to commit such offences about which it has learned , and also to inform , where appropriate , international organizations . States Parties shall take appropriate measures consistent with their national law to protect the confidentiality of any information which they receive in confidence by virtue of the provisions of this Convention from another State Party or through participation in an activity carried out for the implementation of this Convention . If States Parties provide information to international organizations in confidence , steps shall be taken to ensure that the confidentiality of such information is protected . States Parties shall not be required by this Convention to provide any information which they are not permitted to communicate pursuant to national law or which would jeopardize the security of the State concerned or the physical protection of nuclear material . States Parties shall inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations of their competent authorities and liaison points responsible for sending and receiving the information referred to in the present article . The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall communicate such information regarding competent authorities and liaison points to all States Parties and the International Atomic Energy Agency . Such authorities and liaison points must be accessible on a continuous basis . Article 8 For purposes of preventing offences under this Convention , States Parties shall make every effort to adopt appropriate measures to ensure the protection of radioactive material , taking into account relevant recommendations and functions of the International Atomic Energy Agency . Article 9 Each State Party shall take such measures as may be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 2 when : ( a ) The offence is committed in the territory of that State ; or ( b ) The offence is committed on board a vessel flying the flag of that State or an aircraft which is registered under the laws of that State at the time the offence is committed ; or ( c ) The offence is committed by a national of that State . A State Party may also establish its jurisdiction over any such offence when : ( a ) The offence is committed against a national of that State ; or ( b ) The offence is committed against a State or government facility of that State abroad , including an embassy or other diplomatic or consular premises of that State ; or ( c ) The offence is committed by a stateless person who has his or her habitual residence in the territory of that State ; or ( d ) The offence is committed in an attempt to compel that State to do or abstain from doing any act ; or ( e ) The offence is committed on board an aircraft which is operated by the Government of that State . Upon ratifying , accepting , approving or acceding to this Convention , each State Party shall notify the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the jurisdiction it has established under its national law in accordance with paragraph 2 of the present article . Should any change take place , the State Party concerned shall immediately notify the Secretary-General . Each State Party shall likewise take such measures as may be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 2 in cases where the alleged offender is present in its territory and it does not extradite that person to any of the States Parties which have established their jurisdiction in accordance with paragraph 1 or 2 of the present article . This Convention does not exclude the exercise of any criminal jurisdiction established by a State Party in accordance with its national law . Article 10 Upon receiving information that an offence set forth in article 2 has been committed or is being committed in the territory of a State Party or that a person who has committed or who is alleged to have committed such an offence may be present in its territory , the State Party concerned shall take such measures as may be necessary under its national law to investigate the facts contained in the information . Upon being satisfied that the circumstances so warrant , the State Party in whose territory the offender or alleged offender is present shall take the appropriate measures under its national law so as to ensure that person's presence for the purpose of prosecution or extradition . Any person regarding whom the measures referred to in paragraph 2 of the present article are being taken shall be entitled to : ( a ) Communicate without delay with the nearest appropriate representative of the State of which that person is a national or which is otherwise entitled to protect that person's rights or , if that person is a stateless person , the State in the territory of which that person habitually resides ; ( b ) Be visited by a representative of that State ; ( c ) Be informed of that person's rights under subparagraphs ( a ) and ( b ) . The rights referred to in paragraph 3 of the present article shall be exercised in conformity with the laws and regulations of the State in the territory of which the offender or alleged offender is present , subject to the provision that the said laws and regulations must enable full effect to be given to the purposes for which the rights accorded under paragraph 3 are intended . The provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of the present article shall be without prejudice to the right of any State Party having a claim to jurisdiction in accordance with article 9 , subparagraph 1 ( c ) or 2 ( c ) , to invite the International Committee of the Red Cross to communicate with and visit the alleged offender . When a State Party , pursuant to the present article , has taken a person into custody , it shall immediately notify , directly or through the Secretary-General of the United Nations , the States Parties which have established jurisdiction in accordance with article 9 , paragraphs 1 and 2 and , if it considers it advisable , any other interested States Parties , of the fact that that person is in custody and of the circumstances which warrant that person's detention . The State which makes the investigation contemplated in paragraph 1 of the present article shall promptly inform the said States Parties of its findings and shall indicate whether it intends to exercise jurisdiction . Article 11 The State Party in the territory of which the alleged offender is present shall , in cases to which article 9 applies , if it does not extradite that person , be obliged , without exception whatsoever and whether or not the offence was committed in its territory , to submit the case without undue delay to its competent authorities for the purpose of prosecution , through proceedings in accordance with the laws of that State . Those authorities shall take their decision in the same manner as in the case of any other offence of a grave nature under the law of that State . Whenever a State Party is permitted under its national law to extradite or otherwise surrender one of its nationals only upon the condition that the person will be returned to that State to serve the sentence imposed as a result of the trial or proceeding for which the extradition or surrender of the person was sought , and this State and the State seeking the extradition of the person agree with this option and other terms they may deem appropriate , such a conditional extradition or surrender shall be sufficient to discharge the obligation set forth in paragraph 1 of the present article . Article 12 Any person who is taken into custody or regarding whom any other measures are taken or proceedings are carried out pursuant to this Convention shall be guaranteed fair treatment , including enjoyment of all rights and guarantees in conformity with the law of the State in the territory of which that person is present and applicable provisions of international law , including international law of human rights . Article 13 The offences set forth in article 2 shall be deemed to be included as extraditable offences in any extradition treaty existing between any of the States Parties before the entry into force of this Convention . States Parties undertake to include such offences as extraditable offences in every extradition treaty to be subsequently concluded between them . When a State Party which makes extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty receives a request for extradition from another State Party with which it has no extradition treaty , the requested State Party may , at its option , consider this Convention as a legal basis for extradition in respect of the offences set forth in article 2 . Extradition shall be subject to the other conditions provided by the law of the requested State . States Parties which do not make extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty shall recognize the offences set forth in article 2 as extraditable offences between themselves , subject to the conditions provided by the law of the requested State . If necessary , the offences set forth in article 2 shall be treated , for the purposes of extradition between States Parties , as if they had been committed not only in the place in which they occurred but also in the territory of the States that have established jurisdiction in accordance with article 9 , paragraphs 1 and 2 . The provisions of all extradition treaties and arrangements between States Parties with regard to offences set forth in article 2 shall be deemed to be modified as between States Parties to the extent that they are incompatible with this Convention . Article 14 States Parties shall afford one another the greatest measure of assistance in connection with investigations or criminal or extradition proceedings brought in respect of the offences set forth in article 2 , including assistance in obtaining evidence at their disposal necessary for the proceedings . States Parties shall carry out their obligations under paragraph 1 of the present article in conformity with any treaties or other arrangements on mutual legal assistance that may exist between them . In the absence of such treaties or arrangements , States Parties shall afford one another assistance in accordance with their national law . Article 15 None of the offences set forth in article 2 shall be regarded , for the purposes of extradition or mutual legal assistance , as a political offence or as an offence connected with a political offence or as an offence inspired by political motives . Accordingly , a request for extradition or for mutual legal assistance based on such an offence may not be refused on the sole ground that it concerns a political offence or an offence connected with a political offence or an offence inspired by political motives . Article 16 Nothing in this Convention shall be interpreted as imposing an obligation to extradite or to afford mutual legal assistance if the requested State Party has substantial grounds for believing that the request for extradition for offences set forth in article 2 or for mutual legal assistance with respect to such offences has been made for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing a person on account of that person's race , religion , nationality , ethnic origin or political opinion or that compliance with the request would cause prejudice to that person's position for any of these reasons . Article 17 A person who is being detained or is serving a sentence in the territory of one State Party whose presence in another State Party is requested for purposes of testimony , identification or otherwise providing assistance in obtaining evidence for the investigation or prosecution of offences under this Convention may be transferred if the following conditions are met : ( a ) The person freely gives his or her informed consent ; and ( b ) The competent authorities of both States agree , subject to such conditions as those States may deem appropriate . For the purposes of the present article : ( a ) The State to which the person is transferred shall have the authority and obligation to keep the person transferred in custody , unless otherwise requested or authorized by the State from which the person was transferred ; ( b ) The State to which the person is transferred shall without delay implement its obligation to return the person to the custody of the State from which the person was transferred as agreed beforehand , or as otherwise agreed , by the competent authorities of both States ; ( c ) The State to which the person is transferred shall not require the State from which the person was transferred to initiate extradition proceedings for the return of the person ; ( d ) The person transferred shall receive credit for service of the sentence being served in the State from which he was transferred for time spent in the custody of the State to which he was transferred . Unless the State Party from which a person is to be transferred in accordance with the present article so agrees , that person , whatever his or her nationality , shall not be prosecuted or detained or subjected to any other restriction of his or her personal liberty in the territory of the State to which that person is transferred in respect of acts or convictions anterior to his or her departure from the territory of the State from which such person was transferred . Article 18 Upon seizing or otherwise taking control of radioactive material , devices or nuclear facilities , following the commission of an offence set forth in article 2 , the State Party in possession of it shall : ( a ) Take steps to render harmless the radioactive material , device or nuclear facility ; ( b ) Ensure that any nuclear material is held in accordance with applicable International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards ; and ( c ) Have regard to physical protection recommendations and health and safety standards published by the International Atomic Energy Agency . Upon the completion of any proceedings connected with an offence set forth in article 2 , or sooner if required by international law , any radioactive material , device or nuclear facility shall be returned , after consultations ( in particular , regarding modalities of return and storage ) with the States Parties concerned to the State Party to which it belongs , to the State Party of which the natural or legal person owning such radioactive material , device or facility is a national or resident , or to the State Party from whose territory it was stolen or otherwise unlawfully obtained . 3 ( 1 ) Where a State Party is prohibited by national or international law from returning or accepting such radioactive material , device or nuclear facility or where the States Parties concerned so agree , subject to paragraph 3 ( 2 ) of the present article , the State Party in possession of the radioactive material , devices or nuclear facilities shall continue to take the steps described in paragraph 1 of the present article ; such radioactive material , devices or nuclear facilities shall be used only for peaceful purposes . 3 ( 2 ) Where it is not lawful for the State Party in possession of the radioactive material , devices or nuclear facilities to possess them , that State shall ensure that they are as soon as possible placed in the possession of a State for which such possession is lawful and which , where appropriate , has provided assurances consistent with the requirements of paragraph 1 of the present article in consultation with that State , for the purpose of rendering it harmless ; such radioactive material , devices or nuclear facilities shall be used only for peaceful purposes . If the radioactive material , devices or nuclear facilities referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the present article do not belong to any of the States Parties or to a national or resident of a State Party or was not stolen or otherwise unlawfully obtained from the territory of a State Party , or if no State is willing to receive such item pursuant to paragraph 3 of the present article , a separate decision concerning its disposition shall , subject to paragraph 3 ( 2 ) of the present article , be taken after consultations between the States concerned and any relevant international organizations . For the purposes of paragraphs 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 of the present article , the State Party in possession of the radioactive material , device or nuclear facility may request the assistance and cooperation of other States Parties , in particular the States Parties concerned , and any relevant international organizations , in particular the International Atomic Energy Agency . States Parties and the relevant international organizations are encouraged to provide assistance pursuant to this paragraph to the maximum extent possible . The States Parties involved in the disposition or retention of the radioactive material , device or nuclear facility pursuant to the present article shall inform the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency of the manner in which such an item was disposed of or retained . The Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency shall transmit the information to the other States Parties . In the event of any dissemination in connection with an offence set forth in article 2 , nothing in the present article shall affect in any way the rules of international law governing liability for nuclear damage , or other rules of international law . Article 19 The State Party where the alleged offender is prosecuted shall , in accordance with its national law or applicable procedures , communicate the final outcome of the proceedings to the Secretary-General of the United Nations , who shall transmit the information to the other States Parties . Article 20 States Parties shall conduct consultations with one another directly or through the Secretary-General of the United Nations , with the assistance of international organizations as necessary , to ensure effective implementation of this Convention . Article 21 The States Parties shall carry out their obligations under this Convention in a manner consistent with the principles of sovereign equality and territorial integrity of States and that of non-intervention in the domestic affairs of other States . Article 22 Nothing in this Convention entitles a State Party to undertake in the territory of another State Party the exercise of jurisdiction and performance of functions which are exclusively reserved for the authorities of that other State Party by its national law . Article 23 Any dispute between two or more States Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention which can not be settled through negotiation within a reasonable time shall , at the request of one of them , be submitted to arbitration . If , within six months from the date of the request for arbitration , the parties are unable to agree on the organization of the arbitration , any one of those parties may refer the dispute to the International Court of Justice , by application , in conformity with the Statute of the Court . Each State may , at the time of signature , ratification , acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto , declare that it does not consider itself bound by paragraph 1 of the present article . The other States Parties shall not be bound by paragraph 1 with respect to any State Party which has made such a reservation . Any State which has made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 2 of the present article may at any time withdraw that reservation by notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations . Article 24 This Convention shall be open for signature by all States from ____________ until ____________ at United Nations Headquarters in New York . This Convention is subject to ratification , acceptance or approval . The instruments of ratification , acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations . This Convention shall be open to accession by any State . The instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations . Article 25 This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day following the date of the deposit of the twenty-second instrument of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations . For each State ratifying , accepting , approving or acceding to the Convention after the deposit of the twenty-second instrument of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession , the Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after deposit by such State of its instrument of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession . Article 26 A State Party may propose an amendment to this Convention . The proposed amendment shall be submitted to the Depositary , who circulates it immediately to all States Parties . If the majority of the States Parties request the Depositary to convene a Conference to consider the proposed amendments , the Depositary shall invite all States Parties to attend such a Conference to begin not sooner than three months after the invitations are issued . The Conference shall make every effort to ensure amendments are adopted by consensus . Should this not be possible , amendments shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of all States Parties . Any amendment adopted at the Conference shall be promptly circulated by the Depositary to all States Parties . The amendment adopted pursuant to paragraph 3 of the present article shall enter into force for each State Party that deposits its instrument of ratification , acceptance , accession or approval of the amendment on the thirtieth day after the date on which two thirds of the States Parties have deposited their relevant instrument . Thereafter , the amendment shall enter into force for any State Party on the thirtieth day after the date on which that State deposits its relevant instrument . Article 27 Any State Party may denounce this Convention by written notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations . Denunciation shall take effect one year following the date on which notification is received by the Secretary-General of the United Nations . Article 28 The original of this Convention , of which the Arabic , Chinese , English , French , Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic , shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations , who shall send certified copies thereof to all States . In witness whereof , the undersigned , being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments , have signed this Convention , opened for signature at United Nations Headquarters in New York on __________________ . General Assembly resolution 50 / 6 of 24 October 1995 ."	Legal
966	What is ATHENS and how do I get an ATHENS username ? A personal ATHENS username and password is required to access most of the databases , e-journals and e-books . Once you have yours , you will be able to access these electronic resources from any computer , on or off campus . Usernames and passwords can only be issued to staff and students of St. Martin's College for the period of their employment or study . The library automatically creates ATHENS usernames for new students . These are normally e-mailed to your college e-mail account within 10 days of the completion of your College registration . Please check your e-mail first . If you are a student and have not received a username by e-mail , please contact your site library using the email addresses below . If you are a member of staff requiring an ATHENS username , please contact Michael Stanning : MAStanning@ucsm.ac.uk . Problems with your ATHENS username If you are a student or a member of staff and have lost or forgotten your ATHENS username , if it has expired or if you have any other queries , please complete an ATHENS account query form and e-mail it to your home site using the relevant e-mail address below . We aim to respond within 3 days . Ambleside and Barrow : LibAmb@ucsm.ac.uk Carlisle and Whitehaven : LibCar@ucsm.ac.uk Lancaster and London : library@ucsm.ac.uk If you do not have e-mail access , please contact the library at Ambleside , Carlisle or Lancaster by phone or in person . Checking your College e-mail account If you have not previously checked your college email account the following 3 knowledgebase articles will guide you through the process of getting your network login details , accessing your email account and , optionally , re-directing emails to your personal email account . how to obtain your network login details how to access your college email from home how to forward emails sent to your college email account to a private email account NHS ATHENS usernames If you are an NHS employee or are on placement in the NHS , you are entitled to an NHS ATHENS username to access the NHS electronic resources . You can register for one on the National Library for Health web site . Please ask in your local NHS library if you need further information and advice on using NHS resources .	Instruction
108	"Chapter 1 Getting Started 1.1 Getting to Know Your Touch Phone Inside the box • • • • • The product package includes : HTC Touch Pro2 Battery AC adapter Screen protector Wired stereo headset • • • • • USB sync cable Quick Start Guide Extra stylus Pouch Two accompanying discs Top panel POWER Press to turn off the display temporarily . To turn off the power , press and hold for about 3 seconds . For more information , see "" Starting Up "" in this chapter . 24 Getting Started Left panel Right panel VOLUME UP During a call or when playing music , press this button to increase the volume . Microphone VOLUME DOWN During a call or when playing music , press this button to lower the volume . Stylus Tap items , write , or draw on the touch screen . Getting Started 25 Front panel Notification LED * See description below . Earpiece Listen to a phone call from here . START Press to open or close the Start screen . See "" Start Screen "" in this chapter for details . TALK / SEND • Press to answer an incoming call or dial a number . • During a call , press and hold to turn the speakerphone on and off . • While viewing a text or e-mail message , press to call the sender of the message . Second Camera Use this camera for video call conversations or to take a self-portrait . Light Sensor Senses the ambient light and adjusts the screen backlight accordingly . BACK Press to return to the previous screen . END • Press to end a call or return to the Home tab . • Press and hold to lock the device . To customize the END key , see Buttons in Chapter 13 . Zoom bar See "" Using the Zoom bar "" later in this chapter for details . * The Notification LED shows a : • Flashing green light when there are new SMS , MMS or e-mail messages , missed calls , or reminders . • Solid green light when the device is connected to the power adapter or a computer and the battery is fully charged . • Solid amber light when the battery is being charged . • Flashing amber light when the remaining battery level reaches below 10 % . 26 Getting Started Hardware keyboard QWERTY Keyboard Slide open the touch screen panel to reveal the keyboard . See Chapter 4 for details . Touch Screen Getting Started 27 Back panel 3.2 Megapixel Camera See "" Taking Photos and Videos "" in Chapter 11 for details . Bottom panel Microphone Mute Press to mute or unmute the dual microphone . Dual Speaker Use this noise-cancelling dual speaker for conference calls . For more information about making conference calls , see "" Straight TalkTM "" in Chapter 2 . Back Cover Sync Connector / Earphone Jack / TV Out • Connect the supplied USB cable to synchronize information . • Connect the power adapter to recharge the battery . • Connect the supplied USB stereo headset for hands-free conversation or for listening to audio media . • Connect an HTC composite video and audio cable ( purchased separately ) to output the device screen contents and device audio to an external viewing device . Strap Holder Attach a wrist strap , neck lanyard , or string accessory . 28 Getting Started 1.2 Installing the SIM Card , Battery , and Storage Card You need to remove the back cover before you can install the SIM card , battery and storage card . Also , make sure to always turn off the power before installing or replacing the SIM card and battery . To remove the back cover 1 . Make sure your device is turned off . 2 . Remove the stylus . Note You need to temporarily remove the stylus to be able to remove or replace the back cover . 3 . Firmly hold the device with both hands and the front panel facing down . 4 . Push the back cover up with your thumbs until it disengages from the device and then slide it up to remove . SIM card Note The SIM card contains your phone number , service details , and phonebook / message memory . Your device supports both 1 . 8V and 3V SIM cards . Some legacy SIM cards may not function with your device . You should consult with your service provider for a replacement SIM card . There may be fees for this service . To install the SIM card 1 . Remove the battery if it is installed . 2 . Locate the SIM card slot , then insert the SIM card with its gold contacts facing down and its cut-off corner facing out the card slot . 3 . Slide the SIM card completely into the slot . Cut-off corner Getting Started 29 To remove the SIM card 1 . Remove the battery if it is installed . 2 . Insert the tip of the stylus into the small hole above the SIM card slot , and then push the SIM card out with the stylus . 3 . Slide the SIM card out from the slot with your other thumb or finger . Battery Your device comes with a rechargeable Lithium-ion battery and is designed to use only manufacturer-specified original batteries and accessories . Battery performance depends on many factors , including network configuration , signal strength , and usage patterns . For battery life estimates , see "" Specifications "" in the Appendix . Warning ! To reduce risk of fire or burns : • o not attempt to open , disassemble , or service the battery pack . D • o not crush , puncture , short external contacts , or dispose of in fire or water . D • Do not expose to temperatures above 60 ° C ( 140 ° F ) . • Replace only with the battery pack designated for this product . • ecycle or dispose of used battery as stipulated by local regulations . R 30 Getting Started To install the battery 1 . Align the battery's exposed copper contacts with the battery connectors at the bottom part of the battery compartment . 2 . Insert the contacts side of the battery first and then gently push the battery into place . 3 . Replace the back cover and insert the stylus back into the stylus compartment . To remove the battery Lift out the battery from the groove at the upper right side of the battery compartment . Groove Storage card To have additional storage for your images , videos , music , and files , you can purchase a microSDTM card and install it into your device . To install a microSD card 1 . Remove the stylus and then remove the back cover . 2 . Locate the microSD card slot on the upper part of the exposed right panel . 3 . Insert the microSD card into the slot with its gold contacts facing down until it clicks into place . Note To remove the microSD card , press it to eject it from the slot . Storage card slot Getting Started 31 1.3 Charging the Battery New batteries are shipped partially charged . Before you start using your device , it is recommended that you install and charge the battery . Some batteries perform best after several full charge / discharge cycles . Note Only the AC adapter and USB sync cable provided with your device must be used to charge the device . Connect the USB connector of the AC adapter to the sync connector on your device , and then plug in the AC adapter to an electrical outlet to start charging the battery . Charging is indicated by a solid amber light on the Notification LED . As the battery is being charged while the device is on , a charging icon also appears in the title bar of the Home screen . After the battery has been fully charged , a full battery icon appears in the title bar of the Home screen . Warning ! • o not remove the battery from the device while you are charging it using D the AC or car adapter . • s a safety precaution , the battery stops charging before it overheats . A 1.4 Starting Up After installing your SIM card and battery and charging the battery , you can now power on and start using your device . Turning your device on and off To turn on the device Press the POWER button . When you turn on your device for the first time , it installs customized settings and displays the SIM Card Changed screen . See "" Auto configuring data connection settings and importing SIM contacts "" in this chapter for details . 32 Getting Started To turn off the device 1 . Press and hold the POWER button for a few seconds . 2 . Tap Yes when prompted . Auto configuring data connection settings and importing SIM contacts After installing customized settings , the SIM Card Changed screen appears . Follow the on-screen instructions to automatically configure your device's data connections and / or import any contacts you have stored on your SIM card . The device restarts after all selected options are completed . Notes • The Import SIM contacts option does not appear if no contacts are found on your SIM card . • Touch Cancel if you prefer to configure your data connections or import your SIM contacts later . • If you choose to automatically configure your device's data connections and if your SIM card supports multiple network profiles , you will be prompted to select the profile to use . Switching to Sleep mode Briefly press the POWER button to turn off the display temporarily and switch your device to Sleep mode . Sleep mode suspends your device to a low power state while the display is off in order to save battery power . Your device automatically goes into Sleep mode when you leave the device idle after a certain period of time . You are still able to receive messages and calls while your device is in Sleep mode . Your device wakes up automatically when you receive an incoming call . To wake up your device manually , briefly press the POWER button . Getting Started 33 1.5 Home Screen The main screen of the device is the TouchFLOTM 3D Home screen which allows finger-touch access to the most important functions such as contacts , text messages , e-mail , Internet , and more . For more information about using the TouchFLO 3D Home screen , see Chapter 3 . Signal strength Connection status Notification Start screen Volume status Battery status Quick menu TouchFLO 3D Home screen Open the Phone screen ( See Chapter 2 for details ) Open the Camera . 34 Getting Started 1.6 Notifications When you touch or tap the icon area of the title bar , the Notifications screen opens to display your connection status and lists all your pending notifications including missed calls , new SMS / MMS messages , and more . Touch an item on the Notifications screen to open the related screen or TouchFLO 3D tab . Open the related screen or tab . Dismiss all notifications . Close the Notifications screen . To close the Notifications screen , touch Close or press the BACK button . Getting Started 35 1.7 Status Icons The following are some of the status icons that you may see on the device . Icons that appear in this area Vibrate mode Sound on Sound off Icons that appear in this area Battery charging Battery full Battery very low Icons that appear in this area Connection Setup Multiple notifications ; tap the icon to view all New text messages ; SMS notification of voice mail Sending MMS Receiving MMS MMS sent Can not send MMS New incoming MMS New Windows LiveTM message Missed call Icons that appear in this area Speakerphone on Roaming Alarm Other wireless network ( s ) detected Wired headset connected Bluetooth on Bluetooth visible mode on Bluetooth stereo headset connected 36 Getting Started Icons that appear in this area GPRS available EDGE available HSPA available WCDMA / UMTS available Connected to a wireless network Connection is active Connection is not active Synchronization in progress Icons that appear in this area GPRS connecting GPRS in use EDGE connecting EDGE in use HSPA connecting HSPA in use WCDMA / UMTS connecting WCDMA / UMTS in use Maximum signal strength No signal Phone is turned off No phone service Searching for phone service Voice call in progress Call on hold Calls are forwarded Dialing while no SIM card is inserted No SIM card inserted Getting Started 37 1.8 Start Screen The Start screen , which can be opened by touching Start on the top-left corner of the screen or by pressing the START ( ) button , gives you one-touch access to all the programs and settings of your Windows Mobile-powered device . You can also add the shortcut icons of your favorite programs in the Start screen so you can open them quickly . Open the Start screen . Open the TouchFLO 3D People tab . Open the TouchFLO 3D Calendar tab . Open ActiveSync . Open the TouchFLO 3D Home tab . See "" Home "" in Chapter 3 for details . Open the TouchFLO 3D Settings tab and adjust the device settings . See "" Settings "" in Chapter3 for details . Swipe upward the screen to view or add more program icons . Open the corresponding program . Add a program icon . Access all programs on your device . Note Remove a program icon . The Home , People , Calendar , and Settings icons are permanent icons and can not be removed or replaced with other program icons . 38 Getting Started To add a program icon to the Start screen 1 . Touch an empty slot to open the Add Program screen that lists all programs on your device . 2 . Touch the program you want to add to the Start screen . 3 . When you have filled up the current Start screen with programs , scroll down the screen to access more empty slots and add more program icons . To scroll down , press and hold on the screen and then drag your finger upward . To scroll back up , press and hold on the screen and then drag your finger downward . To remove or replace a program icon on the Start screen 1 . On the Start screen , touch Remove . 2 . Touch the program icon you want to remove or replace to clear the slot . 3 . Touch Done . 4 . If you are replacing the slot with another program icon , follow the steps in "" To add a program icon to the Start screen "" . To launch a program Do any of the following on the Start screen : • • Touch the program icon ; or Touch All Programs , and then touch the program in the list . Tip The programs list is long . If you do not see the desired program on the current screen , drag your finger upward to view more programs . Getting Started 39 1.9 Quick Menu The Quick menu , which can be opened from the top right corner of the screen , shows the currently running programs . You can quickly switch between running programs , stop programs , and see how much program memory is being used . Customize Task Manager settings . ( See "" Using Task Manager "" in Chapter 13 . ) Touch this icon to open or close the Quick Menu . Stop all currently running programs . Shows the total percentage of program memory in use . Touch to open the Memory settings screen . • To switch to a running program , touch the program name . • To stop a running program , touch . 40 Getting Started 1.10 Adjusting the Volume A single volume control adjusts both the system volume ( notifications and audio / video playback volume ) and the phone ring volume of your device . To set a single volume 1 . Press the VOLUME UP / DOWN button on the left panel of your device to open the Volume screen . 2 . To increase or decrease the volume level , drag your finger up or down the volume bars , or press the VOLUME UP / DOWN button . You can also : • Touch Silent to mute the volume . • Touch Vibrate to switch the device to Vibrate mode . 3 . The Volume screen automatically closes . You can also tap an empty area of the Volume screen to close it . Note Use the VOLUME UP / DOWN button on the left panel of your device to adjust the conversation phone volume during an ongoing call . Volume bars To adjust the system and ring volumes separately 1 . On the Home screen , slide to the Settings tab , and then touch Sound . 2 . Turn off the Single Volume option . 3 . Press the VOLUME UP / DOWN button . 4 . To switch between the Ring Volume and System Volume screens , touch Ring or System at the top of the screen . 5 . To adjust the volume level , follow steps 2 to 3 in "" To set a single volume "" . Getting Started 41 1.11 Using Finger Gestures You can use finger gestures to scroll and pan on the touch screen . Finger scrolling Finger scrolling can be used to scroll up and down web pages , documents , and lists such as the contacts list , file list , message list , calendar appointments list , and more . When finger scrolling , swipe or flick your finger on the touch screen . To scroll up and down • To scroll down , swipe your finger upward on the touch screen . To scroll up , swipe your finger downward on the touch screen . • To auto-scroll , flick your finger upward or downward on the touch screen . Touch the screen to stop scrolling . 42 Getting Started To scroll left and right • To scroll towards the right , swipe your finger to the left . To scroll towards the left , swipe your finger to the right . • To auto-scroll , flick your finger left or right . Touch the screen to stop scrolling . Finger panning You can use finger panning to move to and view other parts of a zoomed photo , web page , document , or an e-mail . To pan , touch and hold on the touch screen and then drag your finger in any direction . Getting Started 43 1.12 Using the Zoom Bar The Zoom bar located below the touch screen is a handy zoom control that is unique on your device . When you are viewing a web page in Opera Mobile or a photo in Album , you can zoom in by sliding your finger from left to right across the Zoom bar , or zoom out by sliding from right to left . What 's more , you can also instantly enlarge or shrink the text size when you open and read messages or Word documents . Slide your finger from left to right across the Zoom bar to increase the text size , or slide from right to left to decrease . To increase or decrease the text size more , slide across the Zoom bar again . Zoom bar 1.13 Connecting Your Device to a Computer Whenever you connect your device to the computer with the USB cable , the Connect to PC screen displays and prompts you to choose the type of USB connection : ActiveSync Select this mode when you need to do the following : • • Synchronize Outlook e-mail messages , contacts , calendar appointments , files , and other data between your device and your computer . Have read and write access to the whole device . For more information about using ActiveSync , see Chapter 5 . 44 Getting Started Disk Drive This mode is available for selection only when you installed a microSD card on your device . Select this mode when you want to use your storage card as a USB thumb drive , and copy files between your device's storage card and your computer faster . When Disk Drive mode is enabled while your device is connected to the computer : • • You will not be able to use your device to access files from the storage card or run applications that are installed on the storage card . Your computer will only connect to the device's storage card . When you access your device from the computer , you will only see the contents of the device's storage card . Internet Sharing When you do not have Internet access on your computer , you can select this mode to use your device as a modem for your computer . For more information about using Internet Sharing , see "" Using Your Device as a Modem ( Internet Sharing ) "" in Chapter 8 ."	Instruction
272	Mountain Software has been supplying software products since the mid 1970's when a Partnership was formed by six individuals with a range of expertise in the computer industry . The team worked on an array of projects and in 1978 won their first legal client following an IT show . With IT being an emerging science in the legal market place , there were few packages available for small practices to differentiate between the Client Account and General Office funds . For this first client , the software that was produced created that differentiation , thus sowing the seeds of the early PMS ( Practice Management System ) . Building on this , Mountain Software developed its accounting package , time recording systems and case management modules . As the market requirements changed , modules were added , with 14 now in existence . Mountain Software still has that very first client as a loyal user who plays an active role in its continuing development by being Chairman of the User Group . As the company grew , it established itself in the supply of hardware and supporting services . Mountain Software is now able to offer full IT services , from networks , cabling , internet & web services , hardware - PCs , servers , telephony , as well as software . To support its clients , Mountain Software offers comprehensive training services , helpdesks as well as consultancy to ensure that each client understands what is available to him and how best to set up and maintain his IT infrastructure . In 2000 , Mountain Software entered the Coroners' market and now has over 92 % of the market in England and Wales . In 2002 , it entered the Barristers' market with two significant acquisitions and now has over 95 % of the market in England and Wales . In 2004 , it acquired G. B. Systems giving it a 25 % share of the Solicitors' market in Scotland . This is in addition to its 500 existing clients .	Promotion
961	In order to gain access to the membership section and the additional features it contains please contact the webmaster by e-mail . If you have a preferred username then tell us . We will quickly notify you that you have been created as a valid user and then you should enter your username and new password in the boxes at the left . To change your password to a more memorable one : Log on with your new password from us . Enter the Your Details section of the expanded User Menu . Forgotten your password ? If , in the future , you forget your password : Use the Forgotten Your Password ? link at the left . Log on with the new automatically generated password . Change - if you wish - the password as in the above . You will only be created as a user if you have current membership . If your membership lapses your username is likely to be delete	Instruction
1655	"Léon Davent was a French printmaker in the mid 16th century , closely associated with the First School of Fontainebleau . He worked in both engraving and etching and many of his works are based on designs by Francesco Primaticcio , "" rendered boldly and freely "" . Others use designs by Luca Penni and other artists . It is thought that there was a workshop at the Palace of Fontainebleau itself in the 1540s , where he was one of the leading printmakers . Their main purpose seems to have been to record the new style being forged at Fontainebleau , copying both the main subject paintings and the elaborate ornamental stuccos and other decorations . Nymph mutilating a Satyr With a couple of exceptions his prints are signed only with "" L.D. "" , and his identity was long uncertain ; he is known as the Master L.D. in older literature . Lists of his works have attributed between 98 ( Henri Zerner ) and 226 ( F. Herbet ) prints to him . Hunting Scene , perhaps Death of Acteon . Signed "" Bologna "" . Very little is known about his life ; his dated prints run between 1540 and 1556 , when he left a series incomplete , which may indicate his death . There is no evidence that he trained as a painter , and like many early engravers he may have been trained as a goldsmith , a trade where engraving was still important . His engravings , which are presumed to be his earliest works , show a considerable fluency in this difficult technique . According to Henri Zerner , he may have produced about 9 early prints before moving to Fontainebleau , and he may only have started etching , rather than engraving , in about 1540 . Others see him as only beginning to make engravings in 1540 , when his first dated print appears , and etchings from about 1543 – 1544 . Once the switch had been made , he only made etchings . He was perhaps taught etching by Antonio Fantuzzi , one of the Italians at Fontainebleau , and in turn seems to have passed some of his experience of techniques in engraving on to him . Apart from Penni and Primaticcio , who he knew , he made prints after drawings brought from Italy , presumably by Primaticcio , by Giulio Romano and Parmigianino , but not Rosso Fiorentino , unlike Fantuzzi and "" Master I ♀ V "" . In about 1546 he seems to have left France , perhaps in the company of Luca Penni , as a number of prints dated 1546 or 1547 are based on designs by Penni , and printed on paper from Germany ( as it then was ) . These also use black ink and "" the printing has a hard , professional look "" . He produced some of the illustrations for Les Quatre Premiers Livres des navigations et pérégrinations orientales by the geographer and valet de chambre Nicolas de Nicolay , published in Lyon in 1548 . Henri Zerner only attributed 3 of the illustrations to him , while Herbet gives him 61 . Diana at Rest , after 1547 , etching after Primaticcio . In the 1550s Davent was in Paris , again using Penni's designs . As "" Lion Davant "" he signed a contract in 1555 to produce illustrations for a book called Livre de la diversitée des habits du Levant ( "" Book of the different costumes of the Levant "" ) , again by de Nicolay . Davent's latest print for the book is dated 1556 , but the published book only contains 61 plates , rather than the 80 in the contract . The publication of this contract by Catherine Grodecki in 1974 ended the discussion over the identity of "" Master L.D. "" ; there had been a number of other suggestions , in particular Léonard Thiry . He also worked closely with Antonio Fantuzzi , and did etch a number of designs by Thirly . In the contract of November 1555 he was recorded as living on the Rue Saint-Jacques . Although there is no certain proof , most scholars have agreed that there was a printmaking workshop at the Palace of Fontainebleau itself , reproducing the designs of the artists for their works in the palace , as well as other compositions they produced . The most productive printmakers were Davent , Fantuzzi , and Jean Mignon , followed by the "" mysterious "" artist known from his monogram as "" Master I ♀ V "" ( ♀ being the alchemical symbol for copper , from which the printing plates were made ) , and the workshop seems to have been active between about 1542 and 1548 at the latest ; François I of France died in March 1547 , after which funding for the palace ended , and the school dispersed . These were the first etchings made in France , and not far behind the first Italian uses of the technique , which originated in Germany . The earliest impressions of all the Fontainebleau prints are in brown ink , and their intention seems to have been essentially reproductive . The intention of the workshop was to disseminate the new style developing at the palace more widely , both to France and to the Italians' peers back in Italy . Whether the initiative to do this came from the king or another patron , or from the artists alone , is unclear . David Landau believes that Primaticcio was the driving force ; he had stepped up to become the director of the work at Fontainebleau after the suicide of Rosso Fiorentino in 1540 . Cadmus fighting the Dragon , after Primaticcio The enterprise seems to have been "" just slightly premature "" in terms of catching a market . The etched prints were often marked by signs of the workshop's inexperience and sometimes incompetence with the technique of etching , and according to Sue Welsh Reed : "" Few impressions survive from these plates , and it is questionable whether many were pulled . The plates were often poorly executed and not well printed ; they were often scratched or not well polished and did not wipe clean . Some may have been made of metals soft as copper , such as pewter . "" A broadening market for prints preferred the "" highly finished textures "" of Nicolas Beatrizet , and later "" proficient but ultimately uninspired "" engravers such as René Boyvin and Pierre Milan . David Landau describes one of his etchings ( Female Nude Standing , see galllery ) as representing "" the imaginative recording of new artistic expression "" in an "" experimental etching ... full of adventurous lighting devices and daring chiaroscuro , but also defaced by the spots of foul biting and incompetent printing "" . Cadmus fighting the Dragon is a large ( 9 13 / 16 in . × 12 in . ( 25 × 30.5 cm ) with small margins ) and highly finished etching , to a design by Primaticcio , that is one of his most highly-regarded prints . According to the Metropolitan Museum of Art , it "" provides an excellent example of Davent's preference for an all-over gray tone , from which a few lighter areas stand out , giving subtle relief to the forms . This is achieved firstly by covering almost the entire surface of the plate , including the sky , with a close-knit web of lines . Davent also left most of the plate rough – or even , in the case of this print , deliberately roughened it – so that it would hold a film of ink . Only a few areas are polished smooth , hold little ink , and read as highlights "" . "" Alexander the Great and Campaspe sitting on a couch and posing for Apelles standing in the foreground in front of his easel "" , c . 1541 / 45 . After Primaticcio , height 375 mm , width 260 mm . The obscurity of the subject is very typical of the School of Fontainebleau , and at times Jason , Theseus and Hercules have all been proposed as the hero , but it fits much better with the story of Cadmus , the legendary founder of Thebes , as told by Ovid . It seems to form part of a cycle of five prints on the story of Cadmus , the others by Fantuzzi , Master I ♀ V , and two unidentified hands . Davent did three etchings in vertical oval format after the cycle of frescos in the bedroom of Francois I's mistress , the Duchess of Étampes ( 1508 – 1580 ) , from which a total of eleven compositions surviving today are known . The cycle showed the life of Alexander the Great , but with little emphasis on his military career . Some survive in situ , though heavily repainted and perhaps moved within the room , which was remodelled more than once , and is now part of the "" King's Staircase "" . Others survive in prints and drawings ; the subject with the story of Alexander , Apelles and Campaspe was also etched by Master I ♀ V , and is recorded in a preparatory drawing at Chatsworth House . The oval paintings were set in much larger stucco frames , with a standing female nude to either side and much else besides ; several of these survive . An etching of Michelangelo at the Age of Twenty-Three ( see gallery ) is "" somewhat , but not altogether , surprising "" as a subject in France some forty years after 1498 , when Michelangelo was that age . It is identified by the inscription beneath , but is not signed by "" L.D. "" , unlike most of Davent's prints . It is certainly not "" an actual likeness , since the figure is not in the least individualized "" . Henri Zerner suggests "" most tentatively "" that 1498 was the date the sculptor signed the contract for his Pietà , now in St. Peter's Basilica , Vatican City with the French ambassador in Rome , Cardinal Jean de Bilhères , who commissioned the work . A French audience might therefore regard this point in his life as especially significant ."	Information/Explanation
1362	"Repository managers from libraries , museums , archives and other cultural heritage and research institutions can now contribute metadata records for digital materials to WorldCat using the new , enhanced WorldCat Digital Collection Gateway , increasing visibility and accessibility of special collections , institutional repositories , and other unique digital content to web searchers worldwide . In July 2009 , OCLC introduced the WorldCat Digital Collection Gateway to users of OCLC CONTENTdm Digital Collection Management software . Based on the OAI protocol , the Gateway enabled CONTENTdm users to upload the metadata of their digital collections to WorldCat . Recent enhancements to the Gateway now make it possible for any OAI-compliant repository to contribute metadata to WorldCat to gain broader visibility for their digital content . The enhanced WorldCat Digital Collection Gateway is freely available to institutions interested in increasing the visibility of their digital content through WorldCat , the comprehensive source for discovery of materials held by libraries , museums , archives and other cultural heritage and research institutions . Visibility is increased through WorldCat.org , the web destination for discovery of collections , and also through partnerships with Google , Yahoo ! , and an active and growing library developer network . Designed for self-service use , the WorldCat Digital Collection Gateway is a web-based tool that enables repository managers to customize how their metadata displays in WorldCat.org and determine their metadata harvesting schedule – monthly , quarterly , semi-annually , or annually . Additionally , it applies their institution's "" holdings symbol "" to their records , thereby highlighting the unique information resources their institution is contributing to WorldCat . There are more than 25 million metadata records for digital items currently accessible through WorldCat.org , most of which were contributed as part of OAIster , a union catalog of records representing open archive resources from around the world . The number of digital records in WorldCat and their use continues to grow . Since 2006 , there have been more than 600 million visits to WorldCat.org and more than 36 million click-throughs to libraries . With WorldCat.org , users are only three clicks away from an institution's digital content . Source : OCLC LexisNexis to Enrich Content with SRAs NetOwl LexisNexis announced that it has signed an agreement with SRA International , Inc. to implement SRA's text analytics product NetOwl as its enterprise tool to deliver enhanced search and discovery capabilities for legal and business professionals . By integrating NetOwl's entity , link , and event extraction capabilities into its solutions , LexisNexis will create a richer set of metadata for each piece of text-based content it offers . This enrichment will deliver a more sophisticated semantic search capability , answer filtering , and analytics to LexisNexis customers – enhancing their ability to quickly find and analyze the information they need from across large enterprise databases . NetOwl provides highly scalable advanced text analysis technology that automatically identifies and extracts key entities , links , and events from any text data source , in multiple languages . NetOwl automatically identifies and extracts more than 70 types of entities – such as people , organizations , places , addresses , or other things – from text data . NetOwl also has the unique capability to extract more than 150 types of links and events indicating complex semantic relations between entities , such as employment , as well as semantic relations among events and its participant entities . Source : LexisNexis Convert to RFID Tags With Tech Logics uTagIT Libraries converting their collection from barcode labels to RFID tags now have a portable , convenient , and cost effective solution : Tech Logic ' s new uTagIT tagging system . uTagIT is a portable , compact solution for libraries , meeting their on-demand RFID tagging needs . The uTagIT system provides the convenience and ease of use to encode barcode numbers onto RFID tags . The uTagIT system streamlines the conversion process , allowing library staff to efficiently tag the library's entire collection . The conversion process has never been easier . Just place an RFID tag on the RFID antenna and scan an item's barcode label . Using Tech Logic's tagging software , the barcode label number is written onto the RFID tag . The ease and convenience of uTagIT enables library staff to quickly convert the library's collection . uTagIT comes with a hard-sided aluminum case with a handle and a netbook computer . The system is compact , portable , and light weight . The case can be moved to various locations throughout a library , making it convenient to tag items , whether tagging in a central location or in the library stacks . Library automation vendor EOS International has announced EOS . Web Digital , designed for libraries whose collections are stored in digital , electronic formats . The application and digital content may be stored on a local network server or accessed remotely from one of the company's global data centers . In addition to traditional library features , EOS . Web Digital has many value-added features specifically designed for electronic libraries , including : Electronic Resource Management Electronic Content Management Content Aggregator Reference Tracking IP Authentication Classification Management KnowledgeBuilder 100 % digital libraries are rapidly increasing in number each day . The term hybrid library is often used for libraries that have both physical and digital collections . Digital libraries have no specific vertical market and include academic , legal , medical , association , government , and any other type of library . Source : EOS International Google Announces Additions to Biking Information in Google Maps Google began adding U.S. biking directions to Google Maps in March 2010 , and said it was eager to see the response from the cycling community . ( Select "" Bicycling "" from the "" more "" dropdown menu on the map or click on the bicycle icon when asking for directions . ) Through its partnership with the Rails-to-Trails Conservancy , it had detailed bike lane and trail information for 150 cities ; and for the rest of the country , it recommended routes based on other data such as the size of the road , speed of traffic , and hill steepness . Through its "" Report a problem "" tool , any user can send corrections or recommend improvements , and receive notifications from Google when their report has been resolved . The response from users was tremendous . According to a post in Google's Lat Long Blog , more than 10,000 people submitted about 25,000 suggestions for improvements to the bike maps . With their help , Google has now added bike lane and trail data for an additional 80 cities since its initial launch . Source : Google ebrary Offers Free Ebook Collection on Cyber Bullying According to the National Crime Prevention Council , 43 % of teens have been the victims of cyber bullying in the past year . To help parents , educators , and others better understand , prevent , and take action against this growing concern , ebrary is offering a free open access collection of ebooks on Cyber Bullying . ebrary will also enable other organizations to contribute materials as long as they have copyrights . "" As an internet company and content provider , we feel it is our duty to help the community better understand important issues such as cyber bullying , "" said Christopher Warnock , CEO of ebrary . "" By subsidizing authoritative materials from our trusted publishing partners and enabling others to upload and integrate their own critical information , we hope to provide a valuable resource for anyone who wants to address this growing problem . "" ebrary's Cyber Bullying Searchable Information Center includes such titles as Click , Click , Who 's Really There ? : Protect Your Family from Online Predators , Pedophiles , Privacy Loss and More , by Koh ( LHK Publishing , LLC , 2006 ) ; Bullying Prevention and Intervention : Realistic Strategies for Schools , by Susan Swearer ( Guilford Press , 2009 ) ; and Keep Your Kids Safe on the Internet , by Simon Johnson ( McGraw-Hill , 2004 ) . It also includes a growing selection of documents uploaded by ebrary employees from authoritative sites including the Pew Internet & American Life Project , U.S. Department of Justice , and other agencies . ebrary encourages organizations to upload their own relevant materials , right from their computers , with DASH ! ( Data Sharing , Fast ) – a feature of many ebrary subscription ebook products . The Cyber Bullying Searchable Information Center is just one of a growing number of open access collections created by ebrary employees and customers with DASH ! For a listing of additional , freely available collections please visit http://www.ebrary.com/corp/accessCollections.jsp ."	Promotion
61	"Hansel and Grethel Near a great forest there lived a poor woodcutter and his wife , and his two children ; the boy's name was Hansel and the girl's Grethel . They had very little to bite or to sup , and once , when there was great dearth in the land , the man could not even gain the daily bread . As he lay in bed one night thinking of this , and turning and tossing , he sighed heavily , and said to his wife , "" What will become of us ? we can not even feed our children ; there is nothing left for ourselves . "" "" I will tell you what , husband , "" answered the wife ; "" we will take the children early in the morning into the forest , where it is thickest ; we will make them a fire , and we will give each of them a piece of bread , then we will go to our work and leave them alone ; they will never find the way home again , and we shall be quit of them . "" "" No , wife , "" said the man , "" I can not do that ; I can not find in my heart to take my children into the forest and to leave them there alone ; the wild animals would soon come and devour them . "" "" O you fool , "" said she , "" then we will all four starve ; you had better get the coffins ready , "" and she left him no peace until he consented . "" But I really pity the poor children , "" said the man . The two children had not been able to sleep for hunger , and had heard what their step-mother had said to their father . Grethel wept bitterly , and said to Hansel , "" It is all over with us . "" "" Do be quiet , Grethel , "" said Hansel , "" and do not fret ; 1 will manage something . "" And when the parents had gone to sleep he got up , put on his little coat , opened the back door , and slipped out . The moon was shining brightly , and the white flints that lay in front of the house glistened like pieces of silver . Hansel stooped and filled the little pocket of his coat as full as it would hold . Then he went back again , and said to Grethel , "" Be easy , dear little sister , and go to sleep quietly ; God will not forsake us , "" and laid himself down again in his bed . When the day was breaking , and before the sun had risen , the wife came and awakened the two children , saying , "" Get up , you lazy bones ; we are going into the forest to cut wood . "" Then she gave each of them a piece of bread , and said , "" That is for dinner , and you must not eat it before then , for you will get no more . "" Grethel carried the bread under her apron , for Hansel had his pockets full of the flints . Then they set off all together on their way to the forest . When they had gone a little way Hansel stood still and looked back towards the house , and this he did again and again , till his father said to him , "" Hansel , what are you looking at ? take care not to forget your legs . "" "" O father , "" said Hansel , "" lam looking at my little white kitten , who is sitting up on the roof to bid me good-bye . "" "" You young fool , "" said the woman , "" that is not your kitten , but the sunshine on the chimney-pot . "" Of course Hansel had not been looking at his kitten , but had been taking every now and then a flint from his pocket and dropping it on the road . When they reached the middle of the forest the father told the children to collect wood to make a fire to keep them , warm ; and Hansel and Grethel gathered brushwood enough for a little mountain j and it was set on fire , and when the flame was burning quite high the wife said , "" Now lie down by the fire and rest yourselves , you children , and we will go and cut wood ; and when we are ready we will come and fetch you . "" So Hansel and Grethel sat by the fire , and at noon they each ate their pieces of bread . They thought their father was in the wood all the time , as they seemed to hear the strokes of the axe : but really it was only a dry branch hanging to a withered tree that the wind moved to and fro . So when they had stayed there a long time their eyelids closed with weariness , and they fell fast asleep . When at last they woke it was night , and Grethel began to cry , and said , "" How shall we ever get out of this wood ? "" But Hansel comforted her , saying , "" Wait a little while longer , until the moon rises , and then we can easily find the way home . "" And when the full moon got up Hansel took his little sister by the hand , and followed the way where the flint stones shone like silver , and showed them the road . They walked on the whole night through , and at the break of day they came to their father's house . They knocked at the door , and when the wife opened it and saw that it was Hansel and Grethel she said , "" You naughty children , why did you sleep so long in the wood ? we thought you were never coming home again ! "" But the father was glad , for it had gone to his heart to leave them both in the woods alone . Not very long after that there was again great scarcity in those parts , and the children heard their mother say at night in bed to their father , "" Everything is finished up ; we have only half a loaf , and after that the tale comes to an end . The children must be off ; we will take them farther into the wood this time , so that they shall not be able to find the way back again ; there is no other way to manage . "" The man felt sad at heart , and he thought , "" It would better to share one's last morsel with one's children . "" But the wife would listen to nothing that he said , but scolded and reproached him . He who says A must say B too , and when a man has given in once he has to do it a second time . But the children were not asleep , and had heard all the talk . When the parents had gone to sleep Hansel got up to go out and get more flint stones , as he did before , but the wife had locked the door , and Hansel could not get out ; but he comforted his little sister , and said , "" Do n't cry , Grethel , and go to sleep quietly , and God will help us . "" Early the next morning the wife came and pulled the children out of bed . She gave them each a little piece of "" bread - less than before ; and on the way to the wood Hansel crumbled the bread in his pocket , and often stopped to throw a crumb on the ground . "" Hansel , what are you stopping behind and staring for ? "" said the father . "" I am looking at my little pigeon sitting on the roof , to say good-bye to me , "" answered Hansel . "" You fool , "" said the wife , "" that is no pigeon , but the morning sun shining on the chimney pots . "" Hansel went on as before , and strewed bread crumbs all along the road . The woman led the children far into the wood , where they had never been before in all their lives . And again there was a large fire made , and the mother said , "" Sit still there , you children , and when you are tired you can go to sleep ; we are going into the forest to cut wood , and in the evening , when we are ready to go home we will come and fetch you . "" So when noon came Grethel shared her bread with Hansel , who had strewed his along the road . Then they went to sleep , and the evening passed , and no one came for the poor children . When they awoke it was dark night , and Hansel comforted his little sister , and said , "" Wait a little , Grethel , until the moon gets up , then we shall be able to see the way home by the crumbs of bread that I have scattered along it . "" So when the moon rose they got up , but they could find no crumbs of bread , for the birds of the woods and of the fields had come and picked them up . Hansel thought they might find the way all the same , but they could not . They went on all that night , and the next day from the morning until the evening , but they could not find the way out of the wood , and they were very hungry , for they had nothing to eat but the few berries they could pick up . And when they were so tired that they could no longer drag themselves along , they lay down under a tree and fell asleep . It was now the third morning since they had left their father's house . They were always trying to get back to it , but instead of that they only found themselves farther in the wood , and if help had not soon come they would have been starved . About noon they saw a pretty snow-white bird sitting on a bough , and singing so sweetly that they stopped to listen . And when he had finished the bird spread his wings and flew before them , and they followed after him until they came to a little house , and the bird perched on the roof , and when they came nearer they saw that the house was built of bread , and roofed with cakes ; and the window was of transparent sugar . "" We will have some of this , "" said Hansel , "" and make a fine meal . I will eat a piece of the roof , Grethel , and you can have some of the window-that will taste sweet . "" So Hansel reached up and broke off a bit of the roof , just to see how it tasted , and Grethel stood by the window and gnawed at it . Then they heard a thin voice call out from inside , "" Nibble , nibble , like a mouse , Who is nibbling at my house ? "" And the children answered , "" Never mind , It is the wind . "" And they went on eating , never disturbing themselves . Hansel , who found that the roof tasted very nice , took down a great piece of it , and Grethel pulled out a large round window-pane , and sat her down and began upon it . Then the door opened , and an aged woman came out , leaning upon a crutch . Hansel and Grethel felt very frightened , and let fall what they had in their hands . The old woman , however , nodded her head , and said , "" Ah , my dear children , how come you here ? you must come indoors and stay with me , you will be no trouble . "" So she took them each by the hand , and led them into her little house . And there they found a good meal laid out , of milk and pancakes , with sugar , apples , and nuts . After that she showed them two little white beds , and Hansel and Grethel laid themselves down on them , and thought they were in heaven . The old woman , although her behaviour was so kind , was a wicked witch , who lay in wait for children , and had built the little house on purpose to entice them . When they were once inside she used to kill them , cook them , and eat them , and then it was a feast day with her . The witch's eyes were red , and she could not see very far , but she had a keen scent , like the beasts , and knew very well when human creatures were near . When she knew that Hansel and Grethel were coming , she gave a spiteful laugh , and said triumphantly , "" I have them , and they shall not escape me ! "" Early in the morning , before the children were awake , she got up to look at them , and as they lay sleeping so peacefully with round rosy cheeks , she said to herself , "" What a fine feast I shall have ! "" Then she grasped Hansel with her withered hand , and led him into a little stable , and shut him up behind a grating ; and call and scream as he might , it was no good . Then she went back to Grethel and shook her , crying , "" Get up , lazy bones ; fetch water , and cook something nice for your brother ; he is outside in the stable , and must be fattened up . And when he is fat enough I will eat him . "" Grethel began to weep bitterly , but it was of no use , she had to do what the wicked witch bade her . And so the best kind of victuals was cooked for poor Hansel , while Grethel got nothing but crab-shells . Each morning the old woman visited the little stable , and cried , "" Hansel , stretch out your finger , that I may tell if you will soon be fat enough . "" Hansel , however , used to hold out a little bone , and the old woman , who had weak eyes , could not see what it was , and supposing it to be Hansel's finger , wondered very much that it was not getting fatter . When four weeks had passed and Hansel seemed to remain so thin , she lost patience and could wait no longer . "" Now then , Grethel , "" cried she to the little girl ; "" be quick and draw water ; be Hansel fat or be he lean , tomorrow I must kill and cook him . "" Oh what a grief for the poor little sister to have to fetch water , and how the tears flowed down over her cheeks ! "" Dear God , pray help us ! "" cried she ; "" if we had been devoured by wild beasts in the wood at least we should have died together . "" "" Spare me your lamentations , "" said the old woman ; "" they are of no avail . "" Early next morning Grethel had to get up , make the fire , and fill the kettle . "" First we will do the baking , "" said the old woman ; "" I nave heated the oven already , and kneaded the dough . "" She pushed poor Grethel towards the oven , out of which the flames were already shining . "" Creep in , "" said the witch , "" and see if it is properly hot , so that the bread may be baked . "" And Grethel once in , she meant to shut the door upon her and let her be baked , and then she would have eaten her . But Grethel perceived her intention , and said , "" I do n't know how to do it : how shall I get in ? "" "" Stupid goose , "" said the old woman , "" the opening is big enough , do you see ? I could get in myself ! "" and she stooped down and put her head in the oven's mouth . Then Grethel gave her a push , so that she went in farther , and she shut the iron door upon her , and put up the bar . Oh how frightfully she howled ! but Grethel ran away , and left the wicked witch to burn miserably . Grethel went straight to Hansel , opened the stable-door , and cried , "" Hansel , we are free ! the old witch is dead ! "" Then out flew Hansel like a bird from its cage as soon as the door is opened . How rejoiced they both were ! how they fell each on the other 's neck ! and danced about , and kissed each other ! And as they had nothing more to fear they went over all the old witch's house , and in every corner there stood chests of pearls and precious stones . "" This is something better than flint stones , "" said Hansel , as he filled his pockets , and Grethel , thinking she also would like to carry something home with her , filled her apron full . i ! Now , away we go , "" said Hansel , "" if we only can get out of the witch's wood . "" When they had journeyed a few hours they came to a great piece of water . "" We can never get across this , "" said Hansel , "" I see no stepping-stones and no bridge . "" "" And there is no boat either , "" said Grethel ; "" but here comes a white duck ; if I ask her she will help us over . "" So she cried , "" Duck , duck , here we stand , Hansel and Grethel , on the land , Stepping-stones and bridge we lack , Carry us over on your nice white back . "" And the duck came accordingly , and Hansel got upon her and told his sister to come too . "" No , "" answered Grethel , "" that would be too hard upon the duck ; we can go separately , one after the other . "" And that was how it was managed , and after that they went on happily , until they came to the wood , and the way grew more and more familiar , till at last they saw in the distance their father's house . Then they ran till they came up to it , rushed in at the door , and fell on their father's neck . The man had not had a quiet hour since he left his children in the wood ; but the wife was dead . And when Grethel opened her apron the pearls and precious stones were scattered all over the room , and Hansel took one handful after another out of his pocket . Then was all care at an end , and they lived in great joy together . My tale is done , there runs a mouse , whosoever catches it , may make himself a big fur cap out of it ."	Prose/Lyrical
1634	"Demonstrating its continued value and commitment to the K-12 education market , Cisco ( NASDAQ : CSCO ) showcased how school district customers are using their networks as platforms for enriching the learning environment , enhancing student performance , improving safety , and reducing operating expenses while preparing students for the future . The school districts include Kent School District in the state of Washington , School District No. 23 in Kelowna , B.C. , and the Brevard School District , in Viera , Fla. Each of these districts is committed to providing a top-notch educational experience , and in each case , the use of advanced Cisco networking technologies such as switching , wireless and service solutions is playing an integral part in the district's success . "" Increasingly , K-12 schools are recognizing the value of using the network as a platform for innovative forms of education and communication . As new media-rich , bandwidth-intensive education , safety and administration applications are developed , schools are realizing they need infrastructures with the performance , reliability and flexibility these new tools require , "" said Marie Hattar , vice president of network systems and security marketing for Cisco . "" Our goal for K-12 education customers is to equip them with the tools they need to support current applications and ready them to handle tomorrow's application advances , so they can enrich the learning experience of their students and better prepare them for the future . "" Cisco switching , wireless and service solutions that are enhancing the learning environment in K-12 schools include : Cisco Catalyst ® Switches with Power over Ethernet ( PoE ) . These help simplify wireless deployments and help enable unified communications deployments by providing an integrated solution that extends inline switch power to wireless access points and phones . 10 Gigabit Ethernet . This helps enable schools to more easily deploy video solutions such as Cisco IPTV , which can be used to reach a geographically dispersed audience , and Video on Demand , which can provide convenient continuing education options for teachers . Cisco Unified Wireless Networks . Wireless LAN controllers with lightweight wireless access points allow schools to efficiently deploy , secure and centrally manage a wireless network . Cisco SMARTnet ® Service . The operational health of a school's network is maintained through 24x7 direct access to Cisco expertise and resources that promote greater network availability and extend the value of IT investment ."	Promotion
401	"If you would like a CD please send a stamped addressed envelope to : TACITUS PROJECT EDINBURGH COLLEGE OF ART 79 GRASSMARKET EDINBURGH , UK EH1 2HJ Past Events September 14th , 2004 ' Creative digital interaction ' symposium . September 13th , 15th , 2004 Demo days for designers to try haptic system September 8th-10th , 2004 Ann Marie Shillito presented a paper at the Challenging Crafts conference in Aberdeen . July 2004 Idea Storming with members of the design and art community about ways haptics and colocation can aid and benefit computer aided design . July 2004 The Tacitus project has been awarded funding from Scottish Enterprise's Proof of Concept fund . June 2004 Mark Wright presented a Tacitus paer ' 3D Modelling is Not For WIMPs Part II : Stylus / Mouse Clicks ' at Eurohaptics 2004 . May 2004 David Gauldie and Ann Marie Shillito gave a demo day to the student of Edinburgh College of Art . July 2003 The Tacitus Team has entered the Research Councils 2003 Business Plan Competition . June 2003 Mark Wright presented a Tacitus paper ' 3D is not for WiIMPS ' at the HCI International Conference in Crete . April 2003 Ann Marie Shillito presented a Tacitus paper ' HAPTICS : FOR A MORE EXPERIENTIAL QUALITY IN A COMPUTER INTERFACE ' at the European Academy of Design Conference held in Barcelona . December 2002 Ann Marie Shillito presented the Tacitus Project at the AHRB / Design Council event "" Design research - Design and education working for each other "" at The Design Council , London . November 2002 Ann Marie Shillito presented a Tacitus paper at the Conference "" Craft in the twenty-first century "" , held at the Edinburgh College of Art . An opportunity to try out the haptic system was taken up by conference delegates . Her work was used on the poster and in the website . Conference website . There was also an exhibition of Ann Marie's Fellowship work . July 2002 Open Lecture by Professor Malcolm McCullough , author of a major influential book , ' Abstracting Craft - the practiced digital hand ' . He presented his Eurohaptics International Conference keynote lecture at Edinburgh College of Art . The Eurohaptics 2002 international conference was been hosted jointly by Edinburgh College of Art and Edinburgh University on 8th - 10th July 2002 . March 2002 Ann Marie Shillito gave a talk at Pixel Raiders , Victoria & Albert Museum . The Tacitus Project was presented to the Society of Designer Craftsmen . November 2001 Ann Marie Shillito and Dr Mark Wright presented at ' Capturing the Real World - The Role of 3D Imaging ' . Edinburgh College of Art . July 2001 Ann Marie Shillito , Karin Paynter and Steven Wall presented a poster at the Eurohaptics 2001 conference in Birmingham Steven Wall presented a paper entitled ' Design of a Multiple Contact Point Haptic Interface ' at Eurohaptics 2001 and was a member of the conference programme and organising committee . April 2001 Ann Marie Shillito and Karin Paynter presented the project at the CADE conference and the resulting paper will be published in Digital Creativity Journal in December 2001 . Upcoming Events & News . :: T acitus project :: . Prior of using any material on this web site please contact"	News
630	"Story 2 - Taking a GAP year after being rejected This person decided to remain anonymous but wanted to tell their story to let people know taking a forced gap year can be a ' blessing in disguise ' ... In my previous application , I was n't 100 % certain that I really wanted to study medicine , and I was n't fully prepared . I think this showed in my PS ( personal statement ) . As the year went on , I was able to confirm that medicine is what I really want to do . Last year , I applied to 4 med schools with no backup choices . I was rejected after 2 interviews ( I was put on a waiting list at one ) . Obviously I was disappointed , but it did n't come as a surprise . I started to make plans for the next round , and by May , I was looking for jobs on the NHS website and it took about 4 months to find what I wanted to do - porter at my local hospital . ( This takes time so do n't leave it until the summer holidays ! ) I also started to look for GAP year medical volunteering opportunities abroad . Once I finished school , I started to volunteer at my local old people's home , 2 or 3 times a week , and I also started working for the NHS . My PS was more interesting the second time around , because I had more to write about . This time , I chose 3 different UNIs from my previous application , but I put down 1 UNI that I was rejected from last year , after interview . This was mentioned at my interview this time , and I was able to explain what I had been doing in my GAP year and what I was intending to do for the remainder of my GAP year . I also put down two back-up choices . I ended up with 4 offers after 3 interviews for medicine , and 1 offer for physiology . I withdrew from the last option ( another physiology course ) because they were taking too long to decide . This "" forced gap year "" has been a blessing in disguise for me ( except for the increase in the fees , of course ) . For one , I am now sure about my choice of course . Plus , I really enjoyed working as a porter in the NHS , and the extra cash that I 've saved up will be useful when I start Uni . So all in all , I 'm very pleased with the outcome . My advice would be to make the most of your GAP year by working or volunteering in medical environment , to strengthen your PS , but mainly , to make sure that medicine is what you really want to do . I am sure that you will be a stronger candidate the second time around , so best of luck to everyone !"	Opinion/Argumentation
308	Has all the features of a maternity bra - support , coverage , adjustability and comfort , plus : - access for breast feeding - support , so when one cup is open for feeding , the other should continue to provide comfortable support . Emma Jane product code 381 . Available in white and black , in medium , large , xl and xxl sizes . IF YOU REQUIRE A DIFFERENT SIZE , COLOUR OR CUP , JUST SCROLL DOWN USING THE BLUE ARROWS ON THE RIGHT . Nursing bras should be bought during the last month of pregnancy . Do n't forget you will need to buy two or three bras .	Promotion
911	"One man's hobby was fishing , he spent all his weekends near the river or lake , paying no attention to weather . One Sunday , early in the morning , he went to the river , as usual . It was cold and raining , and he decided to return back to his house . He came in , went to his bedroom , undressed and laid near his wife . "" What a terrible weather today , honey . "" he said to her . "" Yes . And my idiot went fishing ! """	Prose/Lyrical
380	Learning & Further Education - Michael My name is Michael . I am 17 years old and I have been to 2 different colleges . I had learning support when I was in school because I have a learning difficulty . I first found out about Workforce through my careers office . I went for an induction and they showed me round the building . I worked through a couple of assessments to decide what level I should work at . T hen I had an interview . I had to bring my National Record of Achievement , Birth Certificate , GCSE certificates and my National Insurance number - you get paid a small sum of money for coming to Workforce . As I did n't have very good grades , they started me on a Lifeskills course . M y main reason for coming to Workforce was to improve my grades . I wanted to get an NVQ in IT , but first I had to do a taster course , to decide which course I liked best . I 've gained new skills since coming to Workforce . I have more confidence and motivation to get up in the mornings . My next step is to find out what opportunities are available to me when I leave Workforce . I would like to get a job but would n ' t mind doing another course if it meant that I could get a better job .	Opinion/Argumentation
273	Chris Wood graduated from Oxford with an honours degree in Politics , Philosophy and Economics , and started his career as a graduate trainee at Ogilvy ( Benson ) and Mather . In 1976 he joined Craton Lodge and Knight , the specialist innovation and brand development consultancy . He became a director in 1982 and Managing Director in 1984 . Meanwhile the company had floated on AIM , and subsequently became part of the Princedale Goup . In 1997 Chris engineered a successful management buy-out of both CLK and Michael Peters Limited with the backing of 3i , and became the Chief Executive of the new company . Synthesising the UK's original branding consultancy with one of the great names in design created a company that genuinely embodied both strategic rigour and creative excellence . Following significant organic growth and various acquisitions , the new company re-branded as Corporate Edge in 2001 . In August 2004 a new CEO ( Simon Lake ) was appointed from within and Chris became Chairman . His role is now split between consultancy and business development . In terms of the former he works across the spectrum of branding , innovation and communications assignments , with clients including Cadbury Schweppes , Freeplay , Pfizer , Travelodge and Williams F1 . He also speaks on the various topics above . His wider business development role embraces both the acquisition of new clients and the forward development of Corporate Edge , currently the UK's leading independent branding consultancy .	Information/Explanation
1339	"Beware toxic chemicals in imported clothing CHOICE says Australia lags behind overseas regulation CHOICE says that inadequate chemical regulation for imported textiles , clothing and footwear means that consumers are unaware that they could be wearing toxic chemicals . In a report into chemicals in textiles , clothing and footwear ( TCF ) , the people's watchdog says Australian chemical regulation lags behind other countries . As a result , Australians are exposed to higher risks of allergic reactions to chemicals in new clothes , footwear and even furniture . "" Over ninety percent of the clothes on Australian shelves are imported . The trend for ' fast fashion ' also means that retailers are under pressure to put more stock on shelves , more often , "" says CHOICE spokesperson , Ingrid Just . "" That pressure , combined with our inadequate chemical regulation for apparel , means that consumers have less protection than people in other countries where regulation is stronger . "" The European Union's ' EU Reach ' legislation regulates the use of more than 300 thousand harmful substances used in textile , clothing and footwear . EU Reach also sets maximum chemical limits for TCF products that come into contact with human skin . The situation in Europe contrasts with that in Australia , where 50 thousand substances are overseen by the National Industrial Chemicals Notification and Assessment Scheme ( NICNAS ) – the Australian equivalent of EU Reach . Additionally , in Australia , there are no legally prescribed limits for the use of those substances in textiles . The CHOICE report cites the case of a woman who suffered chemical burns from new ballet style shoes when they were wet from rain . Subsequent tests by Monash University showed that the shoes were treated with a fungicide and rubber accelerator which was released when the shoes came into contact with water . "" A CHOICE member contacted us about her experience of suffering a burning sensation two hours after putting on a pair of new bowling shoes . She told the supplier , who dismissed the complaint , but she has since contacted the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ( ACCC ) . She has also sent the shoes away for testing . "" Others have come forward – including the mum of a 10 year old boy who suffered large hives and welts after wearing a new school shirt before it was washed , "" says Ms Just . One mould prevention chemical commonly found in shoes , jackets and furniture is dimethyl fumarate ( DMF ) . The chemical , which is often found in small satchels in the product packaging , has been linked to eczema . DMF is banned in the EU but its use is widespread in Australia . Industry stakeholders including the CSIRO , the RMIT University , the National Toxics Network and the Australian Wool Testing Authority have recently joined the Council of Textile and Fashion Industries of Australia ( TFIA ) to work on product safety , including chemicals in clothing . Bodies such as the TFIA and RMIT University have told CHOICE they are shocked by the lack of active Australian regulation . They say that , even though consumer reactions to chemicals in clothing and footwear are not rife , an issue that should n't exist at all is actually growing . "" It would be impossible to import some of these chemicals to use in Australia , but there 's no problem in having the same chemicals arrive in an order of T shirts from overseas , "" says Ms Just . CHOICE says anyone who has concerns about an item of clothing , textiles or footwear , should contact the retailer and the ACCC on 1300 303 609 . CHOICE's tips for consumers : 1 . Wash new clothes before you wear them – keep in mind though , that washing may not remove all chemicals . 2 . When buying for children , look for natural fibres , cotton , linen and wool . 3 . If concerned about allergic reactions , look for clothing made with organic cottons , with the use of natural vegetable dyes . 4 . Avoid ' stain or water resistant ' labelled clothing , unless the manufacturer provides details of the chemicals or processes used ."	Promotion
1407	Finding a Quality West Highland Terrier Breeder A quality breeder may be difficult to find on many occasions because it is rather easy to breed these small dogs and even easier to get them passed as whatever breed you would prefer , including the West Highland White Terrier . Hence , it would take a real effort to find out about which of the hundreds of breeders out there is actually a quality West Highland Terrier breeder . Interview the West Highland Terrier Breeder and Look for the Right Signs 1 . A quality breeder will ordinarily have the puppies within their house , and not a demarcated area outside the normal living quarters . These dogs need to be socialized early in their life , and if they do not get it at the right time , they might develop as aggressive animals . A good West Highland Terrier breeder will know this , and have them socialized very early in life . 2 . These dogs are very temperamental initially . They need to be trained early and with consistence , so ' good manners ' become part of their nature . A good breeder will either have them trained , or if you are taking them away too early , warn you about this requirement . 3 . A quality West Highland Terrier breeder is very proud and possessive about his brood . He / she will be very reluctant to let go of their puppies until they are more than assured that you are the best possible owner for it . Be prepared to be interviewed at length and visited at home as well . The quality breeder will look forward to develop a relationship with you so it will be able to keep a tab on its puppy . 4 . A quality breeder will ask you to sign a contract which binds you to return the puppy ( or adult ) West Highland Terrier if for any reason whatsoever , you would not be able to take care of it any longer . The breeder will never take a chance of having their dogs end in a rescue animal shelter . 5 . A good quality breeder will have all the necessary documentation ready regarding the bitch pedigree , the stud 's as well as the medical reports showing that it does not suffer from any genetic defects . It will also have proof that the female is healthy . 6 . The female would not be younger than two years if the present litter is the first one , and the total number of litters should not exceed four over its whole life span . The female and the puppies should look happy and comfortable with their surroundings and your presence .	Instruction
429	This page aims to keep you informed with what 's happening within the Sensory Garden Project ( Latest developments within the garden and website , plus the latest Natural Health and Fundraising News and Events ) Ebay raises funds for MS Society We currently have a number of items which are listed on Ebay to raise funds for the MS Society , including Healing Art with 100 % of proceeds donated . To date during 2006 we have raised over £ 200 . Please look for our Ebay listings under ' MS Healing Art ' Artist Christine Mallaband-Brown donated a beautiful ' dreamscape ' painting , depicting mid-summer at a stone circle . This is featured in our ' Links - Natural Health ' Artwork Gallery and was auctioned on E-Bay to raise funds for the MS Society . MusketeerS Carers Directory The Carers directory produced by the MusketeerS Multiple Sclerosis support group has been launched on-line . This directory contains the contact and telephone details of many useful services , covering Money Matters , In the Home , Mobility and Other Useful Contacts - see Links - Multiple Sclerosis , Disability & Carers for more details www . t hemusketeers . o rg Garden Openings raise funds for Charities During the summer of 2004 we raised £ 492 for the National Gardens Scheme and £ 864 on behalf of the North Staffs Branch of the Multiple Sclerosis Society by opening the Sensory Garden to the public . During 4 open days , more than 300 people visited the garden and special guests were the Deputy Lord Mayor of Stoke-on-Trent , Councillor Maurice Lewis J. P. and the Deputy Lady Mayoress , Mrs Shirley Lewis . Our highlight was during August when we had a visitor from Tasmania , Australia . She had seen the guided tour on the internet and was visiting the UK for a holiday . Multiple Sclerosis is the most common disabling neurological condition affecting young adults . Around 85,000 people in the UK have MS . The MS Society is the UK's largest charity dedicated to supporting everyone whose life is touched by MS . They provide Respite Homes , a freephone MS Helpline , specialist MS nurses , grants for home adaptations and mobility aids , education and training , and a wide range of information in their Information Centre . They also fund over 70 vital research projects in the UK . Local Branches and Regions cater for people of all ages and interests and are run by people with direct experience of MS . ( for more details of planned dates see our Events page ) . Natural Health News NATURAL HEALTH LINKS We are aiming to build one of the best set of Natural Health links available on the internet . From Aurasonics to Zen Chi , we will endevour to provide links to all aspects of natural health , which could be useful for People with a Disability and equally important for the Carers of these people bringing you the latest Mind , Body and Spirit news . Reducing stress levels - Gardening is good for your mind , body and spirit . Researchers at the University of Florida have found that just walking through a beautiful sensory garden , lowers peoples' stress levels . Cannabis and cannabis based medicines Potential benefits and risks to health A report of the findings of the working party has been published by The Royal College of Physicians - December 2005 The illegality of cannabis in many countries has perhaps obscured proper examination of cannabis-based medicines in clinical practice . On the one hand , many sufferers from multiple sclerosis testify to its efficacy in relieving pain and spasticity , while others have serious concerns about its ability to cause dependence and possibly lead to harder drugs . This report takes an objective and careful look at the evidence on cannabis-based medicines . Their ability to treat conditions such as multiple sclerosis and chronic pain , to reduce the sickness caused by chemotherapy , and to counteract the loss of appetite in AIDS patients , is examined . Each is considered in the light of the pharmacological effect of cannabinoids , their efficacy in comparison to other medicines , and the results of clinical trials . Their efficacy in treating a range of other conditions is also assessed , along with their overall safety , including the possible link between cannabis and psychosis . The fact that the body produces its own cannabis-like substance has raised interesting new possibilities for research into drugs for the treatment of obesity , heart disease and osteoporosis . With a clear patient information section , the report provides an informative guide in a contentious area of medicine for general practitioners , hospital doctors , psychiatrists and patients suffering from multiple sclerosis . Contents * Chemistry and pharmacology of cannabinoids * Cannabinoids and the treatment of multiple sclerosis * Cannabinoids as a treatment for chronic pain * Cannabinoids , appetite regulation and body weight * Other potential medicinal uses of cannabinoids and cannabis-based medicines * Safety of cannabis and cannabinoids * Appendix : Patient information Buy a copy of the report ( £ 12.00 UK £ 14.00 overseas ) , or view the summary on-line at The Royal College of Physicians website ( see Links - Natural Health ) www . r cplondon . a c . u k December 2005 Medical Cannabis Links New Links Added 2006 ( see Links - Natural Health ) Marijuana : The Forbidden Medicine - A place to learn about patients' experiences with medical marijuana - Lester Grinspoon , M. D International Association for Cannabis as Medicine - Society advocating the improvement of the legal situation for the use of the hemp plant Patients Out of Time - Cannabis as medicine A compassionate , science-based educational forum for the restoration of medical cannabis knowledge Therapeutic Help from Cannabis for MS - THC4MS aims to supply medicinal cannabis chocolate to bone-fide MS sufferers in emergency situations The American Alliance For Medical Cannabis - Facts re medical marijuana ( Cannabis ) as medicine , laws for medicinal marijuana - great recipes The Compassion Club - Canada's largest medical marijuana buyers' club . Natural therapies in a safe , healing environment Bud Buddies - a medical marijuana co-operative providing advice on medicinal cannabis cannabis . c om : Medical Cannabis Resources - Read about the amazing medicinal benefits of cannabis .... MAPS : Medical Marijuana Research - Practical resource of scientific information relating to marijuana as an effective medicine The Science of Medical Marijuana - Website sponsored by Americans For Medical Rights	Information/Explanation
1344	The US Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) has published three draft guidances designed to help growers and others across the entire supply chain minimise or eliminate microbial contamination in tomatoes , leafy greens , and melons . The guidances are , in part , based on those originally developed by the produce industry with assistance from FDA . They represent the first step in a fundamental shift in strategy for the agency in the prevention of foodborne hazards associated with fresh fruits and vegetables . These guidances embody the Obama Administrations and FDAs prevention-oriented food safety strategy , said FDA Commissioner Margaret A. Hamburg , M.D. They will be made final as soon as possible after public comment , and will be followed within two years by enforceable standards for fresh produce . These commodity-specific guidances were called for by the Presidents Food Safety Working Group , which recommends a new , public-health focused approach to food safety . In a report issued earlier this month , the working group made recommendations aimed at creating a stronger food safety system . The recommendations stem from three core food safety principles : prevent harm to consumers . use good data and analysis to ensure effective food safety inspections and enforcement of the law , and identify outbreaks of foodborne illness quickly and stop them . Key elements of the draft guidances related to the working groups strategies include : an acceptable baseline standard of industry practices that help both domestic and foreign firms minimise the risk for microbial contamination of their products throughout the entire supply chain ; recommendations regarding growing , harvesting , packing , processing , transportation , and distribution of the product ; and Recommendations for recordkeeping , including some that will help the FDA determine more quickly the source of outbreaks that do occur . Comments on FDAs guidance documents may be submitted at any time . However , to ensure that comments are received in time for consideration in drafting final versions of these guidance documents , written or electronic comments should be submitted within 90 days of publication in the Federal Register . See http://www.regulations.gov for information .	News
1181	Vote for ELI Beamlines in the MIPIM Awards 2016 ! Our ELI Beamlines project in Prague has been shortlisted for the Best Industrial & Logistics Development category of the MIPIM Awards 2016 . As part of our competition entry we were asked to make a short film about the project . Watch it here : The MIPIM Awards will take place from the 15 to 18 March , 2016 at the Palais des Festivals in Cannes . Winners in all categories will be announced on 17 March at an awards ceremony . As a precursor to the big event , you can vote for us in the MIPIM People's Choice Award . Voting is open now and closes 14 March at 11 : 59pm ! Voters could win two free tickets to MIPIM next year . Just click here to vote for our ELI Beamlines project -- home to the most powerful laser beams in the world !	Promotion
1373	Another strategy is to use Internet monitoring to monitor online articles regarding a company's activities to prepare for negative publicity . Some go further and monitor chat rooms , newsgroups , and online discussion forums . The same can happen to a company without a crisis management plan in place . It 's possible to survive the crisis and thrive as PG & E did . Do n't expect Worldcom to pull out of its Enron-like mess . Fraud is not excusable . And Martha Stewart ? She has hired a public relations strategist firm in an effort to do damage control . It 'll be worth watching to see what happens in her case and how the PR firm attempts to save her reputation . Did you know there is a recall on one of her products ? Adds fuel to the fire , does n't it ?	Instruction
824	All The Way From New York ( Chynna Phillips ) Alone ( Wendy Wilson ) Daniel ( Elton John / Bernie Taupin ) Do n't Take Me Down ( Wilson Phillips / Bob Marlette ) The Dream Is Still Alive ( G. Ballard / Wilson Phillips ) Eyes Like Twins ( Rupert Hine / Jeanette Obstoj ) Flesh And Blood ( Wilson Phillips / Glen Ballard ) Fueled For Houston ( Wilson Phillips / Glen Ballard ) Give It Up ( Wilson Phillips / Glen Ballard ) Goodbye , Carmen ( Wilson Phillips / Glen Ballard ) Hold On ( C. Phillips / G. Ballard ( Addit . By Lyrics C. Wilson )) Impulsive ( Stephen Kipner / Clif Magness ) It 's Only Life ( Wilson Phillips / Bob Marlette ) Next To You ( Someday I 'll Be ) ( Darryl Brown / David Batteau / Madeline Stone ) Ooh You 're Gold ( Wilson Phillips / G. Ballard ) Over And Over ( Wilson Phillips / G. Ballard ) Reason To Believe ( Tim Hardin ) Release Me ( Wilson Phillips ) This Does n't Have To Be Love ( Wilson Phillips / Glen Ballard ) Where Are You ( Wilson Phillips / Glen Ballard ) You Wo n't See Me Cry ( Wilson Phillips / Glen Ballard ) You 're In Love ( Wilson Phillips / G. Ballard )	Information/Explanation
1217	"Drivers cause ' life and death ' 999 delays in Hampshire A fire station had its entrance blocked by a coach while passengers got out for a cigarette . The incident at Rushmoor Fire Station in Hampshire is just one of a number of occasions when emergency vehicles have been delayed by motorists . Fire chiefs are launching a campaign aimed at drivers amid concerns such incidents are on the increase . Photos and videos of obstructing vehicles are being posted as part of the service's # INeedMySpace campaign . Hampshire Fire and Rescue said drivers commonly used its Eastleigh headquarters as a cut-through to avoid traffic lights while others blocked roads and stopped in box junctions outside its fire stations . ' Life and death ' Videos showing drivers crashing into fire engines as they tailgated the emergency vehicles have also been released . Assistant chief officer Andy Bowers said : "" The issue of motorists blocking the paths of emergency services vehicles is worse than ever before . "" Some drivers are parking opposite one another making an entire road inaccessible while others are actually stopping by station exits , often in the hatched areas , and some are even leaving their cars on our grounds . "" On the road we have to deal with motorists who are unsure what to do to allow emergency vehicles to pass , and often slam on their brakes the minute they hear the siren , as well as people who try and tailgate when we have gone past . "" These issues are causing delays and , when tackling a fire or cutting somebody out of a car , this can be the difference between life and death . """	News
883	A leading law firm in Leeds are recruiting for a secretary to work in the Personal Injury department . You will have both secretarial experience and experience of working within the legal field . The salary will depend on the length of experience and ranges from £ 14k - £ 18k . You will have a good audio and copy typing speed , have the ability to work under your own intiative and as part of a team .	Promotion
1014	Chairman To Meet Local Veterans Posted 30 / 06 / 2006 The new Chairman of Rochford District Council is looking forward to meeting local veterans at a traditional afternoon tea event to recognise those in the District who have served our country More ... The Wheely Healthy Way To School Posted 30 / 06 / 2006 More than 20 pupils will be taking the two-wheeled route to school on Monday on the first day of a new cycling initiative at Great Wakering Primary School	News
284	"Shiba Inu - Guide The Shiba Inu has an alert noble look on whatever he gazes upon . This lends him an air of dignity and beauty . He is good natured , intelligent and rather curious about everything around him . He is rather independent and much like a cat will usually not come to you when called . When around strangers he is at first aloof but then usually warms up fast . Shibas are affectionate with members of their own family and people whom they trust and respect . We welcome any additions to this description of this lovely dog breed . Please , let us know ! Click here ! Click below to see or submit your own .... Shiba Inu Pictures Comments from proud Shiba Inu owners "" We have had a Shiba Inu for about 6 years . We got our Sheeba when she was a puppy . She has been a great dog . She was easily house broken , and sits well , but any trick training was a waste of time , as she did n't want anything to do with it . She is very home protective ( howling and licking anyone who comes in the door ) , although when someone comes close to her fence line she barks and backs away . She has been a very good dog but would have been better without the semi-annually shedding . The girls weight about 18-21 lbs and the males weigh about 22-27 lbs. The biggest male recorded is 29 lbs. They are smaller versions of Akitas . They LOVE the weather . Sheeba loves to play in the rain and snow . She would spend all day outside if we let her . "" "" Our female ( Shiba Inu ) loves it when her pack is home alone . When other ' humans ' are visiting , she gets very needy and wants to be very close to us , and will actually get up on the chair with us . Of course , she just tolerates our affection and will allow us to hold her if she is in the mood . This independence is an advantage , as she can be left alone for long periods of time . "" Subscribe to our dog newsletter below and get dog tips , pictures and more delivered to your inbox :"	Information/Explanation
1208	How to extract terminology The following procedure can only be used with user corpora . Start by creating your specialized corpus from the web , from your translation memory for by uploading files . With your corpus ready , click Home ( 1 ) and locate the corpus in the My own section ( 2 ) . Click the wrench button ( 3 ) to manage the corpus . Access your user corpora for term extraction Extract one-word and multi-word terms from a corpus Click the Keywords and terms option in the left menu . The process starts immediately and usually takes a few seconds . It might take a few minutes for very large corpora . The output will show a list of keywords and terms together with tick boxes , Wikipedia links and frequency counts .. Click the frequency to view examples of the terminology in context . Download You can download the result of terminology extraction in format TBX ( TermBase eXchange ) and CSV and import it to your CAT tool or other software such as Excel , Google Sheets or Calc ( OpenOffice ) .	Instruction
904	"One of these two was a huge fellow , almost a giant for stature , and armed with a two-handed sword , which he brandished like a switch . Against this opponent , with his reach of arm and the length and weight of his weapon , Dick and his bill were quite defenceless ; and had the other continued to join vigorously in the attack , the lad must have indubitably fallen . This second man , however , less in stature and slower in his movements , paused for a moment to peer about him in the darkness , and to give ear to the sounds of the battle . The giant still pursued his advantage , and still Dick fled before him , spying for his chance . Then the huge blade flashed and descended , and the lad , leaping on one side and running in , slashed sideways and upwards with his bill . A roar of agony responded , and , before the wounded man could raise his formidable weapon , Dick , twice repeating his blow , had brought him to the ground . The next moment he was engaged , upon more equal terms , with his second pursuer . Here there was no great difference in size , and though the man , fighting with sword and dagger against a bill , and being wary and quick of fence , had a certain superiority of arms , Dick more than made it up by his greater agility on foot . Neither at first gained any obvious advantage ; but the older man was still insensibly profiting by the ardour of the younger to lead him where he would ; and presently Dick found that they had crossed the whole width of the beach , and were now fighting above the knees in the spume and bubble of the breakers . Here his own superior activity was rendered useless ; he found himself more or less at the discretion of his foe ; yet a little , and he had his back turned upon his own men , and saw that this adroit and skilful adversary was bent upon drawing him farther and farther away . Dick ground his teeth . He determined to decide the combat instantly ; and when the wash of the next wave had ebbed and left them dry , he rushed in , caught a blow upon his bill , and leaped right at the throat of his opponent . The man went down backwards , with Dick still upon the top of him ; and the next wave , speedily succeeding to the last , buried him below a rush of water . While he was still submerged , Dick forced his dagger from his grasp , and rose to his feet , victorious . "" Yield ye ! "" he said . "" I give you life . "" "" I yield me , "" said the other , getting to his knees . "" Ye fight , like a young man , ignorantly and foolhardily ; but , by the array of the saints , ye fight bravely ! "" Dick turned to the beach . The combat was still raging doubtfully in the night ; over the hoarse roar of the breakers steel clanged upon steel , and cries of pain and the shout of battle resounded . "" Lead me to your captain , youth , "" said the conquered knight . "" It is fit this butchery should cease . "" "" Sir , "" replied Dick , "" so far as these brave fellows have a captain , the poor gentleman who here addresses you is he . "" "" Call off your dogs , then , and I will bid my villains hold , "" returned the other . There was something noble both in the voice and manner of his late opponent , and Dick instantly dismissed all fears of treachery . "" Lay down your arms , men ! "" cried the stranger knight . "" I have yielded me , upon promise of life . "" The tone of the stranger was one of absolute command , and almost instantly the din and confusion of the mellay ceased . "" Lawless , "" cried Dick , "" are ye safe ? "" "" Ay , "" cried Lawless , "" safe and hearty . "" "" Light me the lantern , "" said Dick . "" Is not Sir Daniel here ? "" inquired the knight . "" Sir Daniel ? "" echoed Dick . "" Now , by the rood , I pray not . It would go ill with me if he were . "" "" Ill with YOU , fair sir ? "" inquired the other . "" Nay , then , if ye be not of Sir Daniel's party , I profess I comprehend no longer . Wherefore , then , fell ye upon mine ambush ? in what quarrel , my young and very fiery friend ? to what earthly purpose ? and , to make a clear end of questioning , to what good gentleman have I surrendered ? "" But before Dick could answer , a voice spoke in the darkness from close by ."	Prose/Lyrical
471	I have always been fascinated by the 21st century . I wish I had lived then - in the Golden Age , before London drowned . Before robots thought they could think . I have an old map of the London Tube from that distant past . Those words of Dr Webber - ' Jubilee , Bakerloo and Circle ' . They are old Tube lines . They all go through Baker Street . That tunnel where Webber's prisoners were trapped had pictures of Sherlock Holmes on the tiles . Holmes lived in Baker Street . Also , when we tried to swim into Baker Street station , the platforms had been blocked by strange metal walls . We searched the area until we found a tiny , hidden tunnel in the basement of the Planetarium . We climbed into it . It led us deep underground , until we came , at last , to Baker Street Station . I saw the ancient tiles with their pictures of Sherlock Holmes . And I saw forty or fifty people sat still and lifeless , wearing magnet-hats . Three robot guards appeared . Using robot picture language , I asked them how to put the personalities back into the victims' brains . They showed me . There was a slot inside each magnet-hat where the crystal fitted . I did n't know which crystal came from which person . We had no time to find out . Dr Webber would be here soon . We quickly placed all the crystals into the magnet-hats and turned the power on . Seconds later , the lifeless people began to move .	Prose/Lyrical
627	Confident Believer - I have little doubt I have found the right path Hobbies I enjoy eating out with friends , going to the cinema and the theatre . As well as my daily work , for the last four years I have done voluntary work with children and young peole in care which has been great . I also like holidaying abroad and spending time with family members . Message My faith is very important to me . I am a regular church attender but I am not really one for ' christian clubs ' , I agree with James when he says that faith without works is dead . I 'm told I have a good sense of humour and am caring and trustworthy . At times I know that I am way too independent and do n't let on when I need help - but I 'm working on it ! My likes ? I like spending time in the garden and walking along my local beach . I love eating out , films and I like shoes - I love shoes !! I love spending time with family and friends but I also like to grab a few moments alone . I would definately put caravans , French Connection UK slogans , tattoos and big brother into room 101 ! I am a friendly , normal Christian person seeking likewise !	Opinion/Argumentation
647	For many years I went to an Italian deli all the way from south London into Soho just so that I could have that interaction with this Italian deli and buy my food from there . Crazy thing to do , because it takes you an hour to get there , to do this bit of weekend shopping . So it is my need and my love of that kind of life that I really would like to lead , but you ca n't , you ca n't , you know , I hate supermarkets and I hate impersonal things , so I 'm a very people type of person . And that , I ca n't find that in London . I mean okay , Paris is a big city , Milan is a big city , but I can find that there .	Opinion/Argumentation
1335	"Form PF is the documentation used by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators to understand the financial health of a hedge fund and the effects its potential collapse might have on the overall economy . The largest private fund managers were required to submit the form as of late August following their registration with the SEC mandated under the U.S. financial reform legislation . The largest alternative fund managers are required to update the information quarterly and have a lot more sections on the document to fill out than the smallest fund managers which must only provide the basics on annual updates . Kaal , who teaches international finance , did not ask hedge fund managers specifically about their responses to Form PF so he offered no hard core numbers to back his stance . The information , he tells www.iss-mag.com was provided during discussions with attendees of conferences where the paper was presented . "" No one wanted to clarify just what the phrase flatten out meant , "" explains Kaal . "" It was the exact wording they used in discussing how they responded to PF which suggests that they took advantage of the SEC allowing them some leeway in how they would answer some of the questions . "" A random survey of about a dozen hedge fund compliance executives conducted by www.iss-mag.com on Wednesday also provided little insight into how US hedge funds might have presented information on Form PF . None wanted to publicly elaborate , but privately gave credence to Kaal's "" anecdotal evidence , "" saying they "" hedged "" their answers when necessary to provide as little information as possible which would expose their trading strategies to competitors if it fell in the wrong hands . Risk metrics -- counterparty , value at risk and liquidity risk were also key areas where the questions were subject to interpretation . The "" anecdotal "" evidence begs the question as to whether Form PF will actually provide U.S. regulators -- the SEC and newly created Financial Stability Oversight Council--with any sense of systemic risk , one of the key reasons the documentation was mandated in the first place . Many hedge fund advisers have doubted its long-term efficacy , viewing competing the form as a tedious compliance exercise . The consensus of the 94 advisers to hedge funds , private equity funds , venture capital funds and real-estate funds who responded to Kaal's questionnaire indicated that complying with Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act was a bit surprising . Although the majority of respondents say they outsourced compliance work , hired additional counsel and staff ; instituted new recordkeeping policies ; changed marketing materials ; and changed communications with investors , the pricetag and time spent complying with the legislation reflected Kaal's conclusion that it had only a "" moderate "" impact . Most of the respondents said they spent about $ 50 , 000 to $ 200 , 000 and did less than 500 hours worth of work . Still , Kaal does offer one key caveat to his study . It is entitled "" Hedge Fund Manager Registration Under the Dodd-Frank Act ; An Empirical Study , "" but as Kaal notes , the results are "" preliminary . "" He will be conducting further studies on the effects of Dodd-Frank on alternative funds , with an emphasis on smaller-sized funds . More often than not , their advisers cited cost as a challenge to complying with the new regulations . Regulations and Compliance"	News
314	Leeds pilot evaluation The programme was established with the aim of evaluating the potential benefits of shared road space in a variety of Home Zones across England and Wales . The Methleys Home Zone is to the north of Leeds City Centre and employed such measures as gateway treatments , Home Zone signing , shared road space , traffic calming and hard and soft landscaping . In order to assess the effectiveness of these measures , a programme of ' before ' and ' after ' monitoring was undertaken . This included household interview surveys with adults and children , collection of traffic flow , speed and accident data , video recording to observe residents behaviour in the shared space , air quality and noise monitoring . The interviews revealed that the majority of resident 's supported the Home Zone scheme and felt it had had a positive impact , whilst half of the adults surveyed thought that motorists were now more considerate to children playing in the street . From the children came a list of the most popular outdoor activities including riding bikes , playing football , chatting and ' hanging around ' with friends . Notably , mean traffic speeds were reduced by 6 mph and traffic flows fell by 10 per cent . The question of on-street car parking spaces and the desire to park close to home to reduce the risk of crime was an area of main concern raised by the residents during the consultation process . On-street parking spaces were reduced by 16 % but generally in areas not directly overlooked by houses . The Home Zone measures had little impact on modal shift or how often people walked , cycled or drove . Similarly , they had little impact on noise levels and kerbside concentrations of benzene and nitrogen oxides . This first evaluation report demonstrates the value of robust monitoring both ' before ' and ' after ' the introduction of Home Zone Schemes and provides quality information for town planners to call upon when considering such schemes in the future . You can download the report from this website here : blank ' Pilot home zone schemes : evaluation of The Methleys Printed copies of the report are available from TRL priced £ 10 .	News
386	SIBA PRESENTS THE PROFESSIONAL FACE OF A PROFESSIONAL INDUSTRY PROMOTING THE INTERESTS OF INDEPENDENT BREWERIES SIBA goes about highlighting the interests of beer drinkers and independent breweries in a number of other ways : Politically : SIBA is consulted by governing bodies such as DEFRA , Office of Fair Trading etc. regarding issues relevant to the industry . For example , the Review of Beer Orders , the Review of Duty systems , Drink Driving and the National Alcohol Strategy Promotionally : SIBA actively raises the profile of genuinely independent small breweries so as to provide a greater choice of craft beer to the public through the organisation of such events as regional beer festivals and the SIBA National Beer Challenge . Co-operatively : SIBA is divided into regions , which hold regular meetings , where members are able to express their views and concerns . These concerns are taken by regional representatives to the National Council who are then able to address them officially . The SIBA grapevine is highly efficient and is an invaluable tool in encouraging co-operation in such areas as highlighting changes that need to be made on behalf of the beer drinker and the exchange of expertise Professionally : SIBA members sign-up to a series of By-laws and a Code of Practice , which helps ensure that high standards of business practice and beer production are maintained Informatively : SIBA publishes its own magazine every two months . The SIBA Journal carries technical articles covering all aspects of brewing , by expert authors . It also keeps members informed of the Society's campaigning activities and contains vital industry information Intro | SIBA's role | SIBA Council The Society of Independent Brewers was founded in 1980 under the title The Small Independent Brewers Association ( SIBA ) to represent the interests of the growing numbers of independent brewing companies in the UK . It changed its name in 1995 to reflect better the changing aspirations of its members , but maintained its original acronym . SIBA aims to ensure that its members' products are always of high quality and membership is conditional upon adhering to the Society's Code of Practice and Bye-Laws . Beer and ale have been traditional and wholesome foods and beverages for well over 2000 years , and many styles are indigenous and unique to the British Isles . SIBA members seek to preserve these traditional styles and their traditional methods of manufacture , whilst at the same time demonstrating the skill of their craft through creativity , invention and innovation . SIBA is a Company Limited By Guarantee . That means that it is run by a Council of ' Trustees ' . These are appointed to represent members from each of SIBA's Seven regions . In addition members with particular skills can also be co-opted onto Council	Promotion
275	4.3.1 A major priority for the New TSN Unit during the first year of the policy was to ensure that Departments and others had the guidance and advice they needed effectively to implement New TSN ; and that appropriate arrangements were in place to enable Departments effectively to work together . 4.3.2 The Unit worked with trainers from across Departments to explain the importance of New TSN training . It produced core training materials , for use by all Departments which explained New TSN principles and their implementation . It provided seminars to guide Departmental trainers and policy makers on the use of the material and on adopting these to suit individual needs . These were followed up with training ' clinics ' , small intensive group sessions to discuss issues arising from the delivery of training across Departments . 4.3.3 The Unit gained ' hands on ' experience of training by providing training sessions within OFMDFM . The Unit also provided additional advice and support to individual trainers from a number of Departments . The content of the core training materials have been kept under review , and , where necessary , amendments made in the light of their use . 4.3.4 An important aspect of the Unit's work is to advise , and where necessary , challenge Departments on their implementation of New TSN . The Unit fulfills this role by developing and nurturing an understanding of each Department's responsibilities and range of business . Undertaking bilateral meetings and assisting in the consideration of issues concerning the implementation of New TSN . 4.3.5 The New TSN Unit reviewed the cross-Departmental groups on New TSN Action Plans and Promoting Social Inclusion Priorities , which had been established under Direct Rule . It concluded that , in the Devolved context , a single New TSN Steering Group whose terms of reference amalgamated the responsibilities of both these groups would ensure greater cohesion in delivering all aspects of work on New TSN . The New TSN Steering Group was established in September 2000 . 4.3.6 OFMDFM also had a crucial role in ensuring that New TSN was fully taken into account in cross-Departmental reviews on initiatives led by other Departments . This role is exercised primarily through membership of cross-departmental Working Groups . However , the Department also contributed advice and information on an ad hoc basis , for example , the Taskforce on Employability and Long Term Unemployment established by the Minister for Employment and Learning in March 2001 and the review of public procurement initiated by the Minister for Finance and Personnel .	Information/Explanation
1257	Homing Requirements : Ruby needs stability and guidance as she continues to progress . She needs socialisation to maintain her current fluency . Ruby is open to family complexities . Not for cats or small furries and her energy should be maintained under her and your control , as she can get hyped up like Terriers do . Her Story : Ruby was found stray on Christmas Eve , her owner came forwards on Boxing Day and took her ' home ' , found stray 8 days later but chased up , all the info given had been false . Ruby was homed in February but her owners have since split up . She is spayed , fully vax 'd and chipped . Advert : Ruby is such a pretty Staffie , young and needs a responsible family to multi-colour her world . She is dog fluent currently and connected off lead . She needs a situation where this is maintained and she continues training in which she delights . She is gentle and could live with children or entertain visiting children . Ruby is a white with brindle patches Staffie girl and her eyes shine like rubies . Ruby is well mannered and mixes well with dogs inside her house and outside . She was doing flyball but she had several incidents when she become hyped up so not recommended ... though she loved the ' task ' . Lovely companion dog who will be cherished for life we 're sure .	Information/Explanation
151	"So , indeed , I have spent my life looking into the lives of presidents who are no longer alive . Waking up with Abraham Lincoln in the morning , thinking of Franklin Roosevelt when I went to bed at night . But when I try and think about what I 've learned about the meaning in life , my mind keeps wandering back to a seminar that I took when I was a graduate student at Harvard with the great psychologist Erik Erikson . He taught us that the richest and fullest lives attempt to achieve an inner balance between three realms : work , love and play . And that to pursue one realm to the disregard of the other , is to open oneself to ultimate sadness in older age . Whereas to pursue all three with equal dedication , is to make possible a life filled , not only with achievement , but with serenity . So since I tell stories , let me look back on the lives of two of the presidents I 've studied to illustrate this point -- Abraham Lincoln and Lyndon Johnson . As for that first sphere of work , I think what Abraham Lincoln's life suggests is that fierce ambition is a good thing . He had a huge ambition . But it was n ' t simply for office or power or celebrity or fame -- what it was for was to accomplish something worthy enough in life so that he could make the world a little better place for his having lived in it . Even as a child , it seemed , Lincoln dreamed heroic dreams . He somehow had to escape that hard-scrabble farm from which he was born . No schooling was possible for him , except a few weeks here , a few weeks there . But he read books in every spare moment he could find . It was said when he got a copy of the King James Bible or "" Aesop's Fables , "" he was so excited he could n ' t sleep . He could n ' t eat . The great poet Emily Dickinson once said , "" There is no frigate like a book to take us lands away . "" How true for Lincoln . Though he never would travel to Europe , he went with Shakespeare's kings to merry England , he went with Lord Byron's poetry to Spain and Portugal . Literature allowed him to transcend his surroundings . But there were so many losses in his early life that he was haunted by death . His mother died when he was only nine years old . His only sister , Sarah , in childbirth a few years later . And his first love , Ann Rutledge , at the age of 22 . Moreover , when his mother lay dying she did not hold out for him the hope that they would meet in an afterworld . She simply said to him , "" Abraham , I 'm going away from you now , and I shall never return . "" As a result he became obsessed with the thought that when we die our life is swept away , dust to dust . But only as he grew older did he develop a certain consolation from an ancient Greek notion -- but followed by other cultures as well -- that if you could accomplish something worthy in your life , you could live on in the memory of others . Your honor and your reputation would outlive your earthly existence . And that worthy ambition became his lodestar . It carried him through the one significant depression that he suffered when he was in his early 30s . Three things had combined to lay him low . He had broken his engagement with Mary Todd , not certain he was ready to marry her , but knowing how devastating it was to her that he did that . His one intimate friend , Joshua Speed , was leaving Illinois to go back to Kentucky because Speed's father had died . And his political career in the state legislature was on a downward slide . He was so depressed that friends worried he was suicidal . They took all knives and razors and scissors from his room . And his great friend Speed went to his side and said , "" Lincoln , you must rally or you will die . "" He said that , "" I would just as soon die right now , but I 've not yet done anything to make any human being remember that I have lived . "" So fuelled by that ambition , he returned to the state legislature . He eventually won a seat in Congress . He then ran twice for the Senate , lost twice . "" Everyone is broken by life , "" Ernest Hemingway once said , "" but some people are stronger in the broken places . "" So then he surprised the nation with an upset victory for the presidency over three far more experienced , far more educated , far more celebrated rivals . And then when he won the general election , he stunned the nation even more by appointing each of these three rivals into his Cabinet . It was an unprecedented act at the time because everybody thought , "" He 'll look like a figurehead compared to these people . "" They said , "" Why are you doing this , Lincoln ? "" And he said , "" Look , these are the strongest and most able men in the country . The country is in peril . I need them by my side . "" But perhaps my old friend , Lyndon Johnson might have put it in less noble fashion , "" Better to have your enemies inside the tent pissing out , than outside the tent pissing in . "" ( Laughter ) But it soon became clear that Abraham Lincoln would emerge as the undisputed captain of this unruly team . For each of them soon came to understand that he possessed an unparalleled array of emotional strengths and political skills that proved far more important than the thinness of his external résumé . For one thing , he possessed an uncanny ability to empathize with and to think about other peoples' point of view . He repaired injured feelings that might have escalated into permanent hostility . He shared credit with ease , assumed responsibility for the failure of his subordinates , constantly acknowledged his errors and learned from his mistakes . These are the qualities we should be looking for in our candidates in 2008 . ( Applause ) He refused to be provoked by petty grievances . He never submitted to jealousy or brooded over perceived slights . And he expressed his unshakeable convictions in everyday language , in metaphors , in stories . And with a beauty of language , almost as if the Shakespeare and the poetry he had so loved as a child had worked their way into his very soul . In 1863 , when the Emancipation Proclamation was signed , he brought his old friend , Joshua Speed , back to the White House . And remembered that conversation of decades before , when he was so sad . And he , pointing to the Proclamation said , "" I believe in this measure my fondest hopes will be realized . "" But as he was about to put his signature on the Proclamation his own hand was numb and shaking because he had shaken a thousand hands that morning at a New Year's reception . So he put the pen down . He said , "" If ever my soul were in an act , it is in this act . But if I sign with a shaking hand , posterity will say , ' He hesitated . ' "" So he waited until he could take up the pen and sign with a bold and clear hand . But even in his wildest dreams , Lincoln could never have imagined how far his reputation would reach . I was so thrilled to find an interview with the great Russian writer , Leo Tolstoy , in a New York newspaper in the early 1900s . And in it , Tolstoy told of a trip that he 'd recently made to a very remote area of the Caucasus , where there were only wild barbarians , who had never left this part of Russia . Knowing that Tolstoy was in their midst , they asked him to tell stories of the great men of history . So he said , "" I told them about Napoleon and Alexander the Great and Frederick the Great and Julius Caesar , and they loved it . But before I finished , the chief of the barbarians stood up and said , "" But wait , you have n ' t told us about the greatest ruler of them all . We want to hear about that man who spoke with a voice of thunder , who laughed like the sunrise , who came from that place called America , which is so far from here , that if a young man should travel there , he would be an old man when he arrived . Tell us of that man . Tell us of Abraham Lincoln . ' "" He was stunned . He told them everything he could about Lincoln . And then in the interview he said , "" What made Lincoln so great ? Not as great a general as Napoleon , not as great a statesman as Frederick the Great . "" But his greatness consisted , and historians would roundly agree , in the integrity of his character and the moral fiber of his being . So in the end that powerful ambition that had carried Lincoln through his bleak childhood had been realized . That ambition that had allowed him to laboriously educate himself by himself , to go through that string of political failures and the darkest days of the war . His story would be told . So as for that second sphere , not of work , but of love -- encompassing family , friends and colleagues -- it , too , takes work and commitment . The Lyndon Johnson that I saw in the last years of his life , when I helped him on his memoirs , was a man who had spent so many years in the pursuit of work , power and individual success , that he had absolutely no psychic or emotional resources left to get him through the days once the Presidency was gone . My relationship with him began on a rather curious level . I was selected as a White House Fellow when I was 24 years old . We had a big dance at the White House . President Johnson did dance with me that night . Not that peculiar -- there were only three women out of the 16 White House Fellows . But he did whisper in my ear that he wanted me to work directly for him in the White House . But it was not to be that simple . For in the months leading up to my selection , like many young people , I 'd been active in the anti-Vietnam War movement , and had written an article against Lyndon Johnson , which unfortunately came out in The New Republic two days after the dance in the White House . ( Laugher ) And the theme of the article was how to remove Lyndon Johnson from power . ( Laughter ) So I was certain he would kick me out of the program . But instead , surprisingly , he said , "" Oh , bring her down here for a year , and if I ca n ' t win her over , no one can . "" So I did end up working for him in the White House . Eventually accompanied him to his ranch to help him on those memoirs , never fully understanding why he 'd chosen me to spend so many hours with . I like to believe it was because I was a good listener . He was a great story teller . Fabulous , colorful , anecdotal stories . There was a problem with these stories , however , which I later discovered , which is that half of them were n ' t true . But they were great , nonetheless . ( Laughter ) So I think that part of his attraction for me was that I loved listening to his tall tales . But I also worried that part of it was that I was then a young woman . And he had had somewhat of a minor league womanizing reputation . So I constantly chatted to him about boyfriends , even when I did n't have any at all . Everything was working perfectly , until one day he said he wanted to discuss our relationship . Sounded very ominous when he took me nearby to the lake , conveniently called Lake Lyndon Baines Johnson . And there was wine and cheese and a red-checked tablecloth -- all the romantic trappings . And he started out , "" Doris , more than any other woman I have ever known ... "" And my heart sank . And then he said , "" You remind me of my mother . "" ( Laughter ) It was pretty embarrassing , given what was going on in my mind . But I must say , the older I 've gotten , the more I realize what an incredible privilege it was to have spent so many hours with this aging lion of a man . A victor in a thousand contests , three great civil rights laws , Medicare , aid to education . And yet , roundly defeated in the end by the war in Vietnam . And because he was so sad and so vulnerable , he opened up to me in ways he never would have had I know him at the height of his power -- sharing his fears , his sorrows and his worries . And I 'd like to believe that the privilege fired within me the drive to understand the inner person behind the public figure , that I 've tried to bring to each of my books since then . But it also brought home to me the lessons which Erik Erikson had tried to instill in all of us , about the importance of finding balance in life . For on the surface , Lyndon Johnson should have had everything in the world to feel good about in those last years , in the sense that he had been elected to the Presidency . He had all the money he needed to pursue any leisure activity he wanted . He owned a spacious ranch in the countryside , a penthouse in the city . Sailboats , speedboats . He had servants to answer any whim , and he had a family who loved him deeply . And yet , years of concentration solely on work and individual success meant that in his retirement he could find no solace in family , in recreation , in sports or in hobbies . It was almost as if the hole in his heart was so large that even the love of a family , without work , could not fill it . As his spirits sagged , his body deteriorated until , I believe , he slowly brought about his own death . In those last years , he said he was so sad watching the American people look toward a new President and forgetting him . He spoke with immense sadness in his voice , saying maybe he should have spent more time with his children , and their children in turn . But it was too late . Despite all that power , all that wealth , he was alone when he finally died -- his ultimate terror realized . So as for that third sphere of play , which he never had learned to enjoy , I 've learned over the years that even this sphere requires a commitment of time and energy . Enough so that a hobby , a sport , a love of music , or art , or literature , or any form of recreation , can provide true pleasure , relaxation and replenishment . So deep , for instance , was Abraham Lincoln's love of Shakespeare , that he made time to spend more than a hundred nights in the theatre , even during those dark days of the war . He said , when the lights went down and a Shakespeare play came on , for a few precious hours he could imagine himself back in Prince Hal's time . But an even more important form of relaxation for him , that Lyndon Johnson never could enjoy , was a love of , somehow , humor . And feeling out what hilarious parts of life can produce as side light to the sadness . He once said that he laughed so he did not cry . That a good story for him was better than a drop of whiskey . His storytelling powers had first been recognized when he was on the circuit in Illinois . The lawyers and the judges would travel from one county courthouse to the other , and when anyone was knowing Lincoln was in town , they would come from miles around to listen to him tell stories . He would stand with his back against a fire and entertain the crowd for hours with his winding tales . And all these stories became part of his memory bank , so he could call on them whenever he needed to . And they 're not quite what you might expect from our marble monument . One of his favorite stories , for example , had to do with the revolutionary war hero , Ethan Allen . And as Lincoln told the story , Mr. Allen went to Britain after the war . And the British people were still upset about losing the revolution , so they decided to embarrass him a little bit by putting a huge picture of General Washington in the only outhouse , where he 'd have to encounter it . They figured he 'd be upset about the indignity of George Washington being in an outhouse . But he came out of the outhouse not upset at all . And so they said , "" Well , did you see George Washington in there ? "" "" Oh , yes , "" he said , "" perfectly appropriate place for him . "" "" What do you mean ? "" they said . "" Well , "" he said , "" there 's nothing to make an Englishman shit faster than the sight of General George Washington . "" ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So you can imagine , if you are in the middle of a tense cabinet meeting -- and he had hundreds of these stories -- you would have to relax . So between his nightly treks to the theatre , his story telling , and his extraordinary sense of humor and his love of quoting Shakespeare and poetry , he found that form of play which carried him through his days . In my own life , I shall always be grateful for having found a form of play in my irrational love of baseball . Which allows me from the beginning of spring training to the end of the fall to have something to occupy my mind and heart other than my work . It all began when I was only six years old , and my father taught me that mysterious art of keeping score while listening to baseball games . So that when he went to work in New York during the day , I could record for him the history of that afternoon's Brooklyn Dodgers game . Now , when you 're only six years old , and your father comes home every single night and listens to you -- as I now realize that I , in excruciating detail , recounted every single play of every inning of the game that had just taken place that afternoon . But he made me feel I was telling him a fabulous story . It makes you think there 's something magic about history to keep your father's attention . In fact , I 'm convinced I learned the narrative art from those nightly sessions with my father . Because at first , I 'd be so excited I would blurt out , "" The Dodgers won ! "" or , "" The Dodgers lost ! "" Which took much of the drama of this two-hour-telling away . ( Laughter ) So I finally learned you had to tell a story from beginning to middle to end . I must say , so fervent was my love of the old Brooklyn Dodgers in those days , that I had to confess in my first confession two sins that related to baseball . The first occurred because the Dodgers' catcher , Roy Campanella , came to my hometown of Rockville Centre , Long Island , just as I was in preparation for my first Holy Communion . And I was so excited -- first person I 'd ever see outside of Ebbets Field . But it so happened he was speaking in a Protestant Church . When you are brought up as a Catholic , you think that if you ever set foot in a Protestant Church , you 'll be struck dead at the threshold . So I went to my father in tears , "" What are we going to do ? "" He said , "" Do n't worry . He 's speaking in a parish hall . We 're sitting in folding chairs . He 's talking about sportsmanship . It 's not a sin . "" But as I left that night , I was certain that somehow I 'd traded the life of my everlasting soul for this one night with Roy Campanella . ( Laughter ) And there were no indulgences around that I could buy . So I had this sin on my soul when I went to my first confession . I told the priest right away . He said , "" No problem . It was n ' t a religious service . "" But then , unfortunately , he said , "" And what else , my child ? "" And then came my second sin . I tried to sandwich it in between talking too much in church , wishing harm to others , being mean to my sisters . And he said , "" To whom did you wish harm ? "" And I had to say that I wished that various New York Yankees players would break arms , legs and ankles -- ( Laughter ) -- so that the Brooklyn Dodgers could win their first World Series . He said , "" How often do you make these horrible wishes ? "" And I had to say , every night when I said my prayers . ( Laughter ) So he said , "" Look , I 'll tell you something . I love the Brooklyn Dodgers , as you do , but I promise you some day they will win fairly and squarely . You do not need to wish harm on others to make it happen . "" "" Oh yes , "" I said . But luckily , my first confession -- to a baseball-loving priest ! ( Laughter ) Well , though my father died of a sudden heart attack when I was still in my 20s , before I had gotten married and had my three sons , I have passed his memory -- as well as his love of baseball -- on to my boys . Though when the Dodgers abandoned us to come to L. A. , I lost faith in baseball until I moved to Boston and became an irrational Red Socks fan . And I must say , even now , when I sit with my sons with our season tickets , I can sometimes close my eyes against the sun and imagine myself , a young girl once more , in the presence of my father , watching the players of my youth on the grassy fields below . Jackie Robinson , Roy Campanella , Pee Wee Reese , and Duke Snider . I must say there is magic in these moments . When I open my eyes and I see my sons in the place where my father once sat , I feel an invisible loyalty and love linking my sons to the grandfather whose face they never had a chance to see , but whose heart and soul they have come to know through all the stories I have told . Which is why in the end , I shall always be grateful for this curious love of history , allowing me to spend a lifetime looking back into the past . Allowing me to learn from these large figures about the struggle for meaning for life . Allowing me to believe that the private people we have loved and lost in our families , and the public figures we have respected in our history , just as Abraham Lincoln wanted to believe , really can live on , so long as we pledge to tell and to retell the stories of their lives . Thank you for letting me be that storyteller today . ( Applause ) Thank you . </content"	Opinion/Argumentation
1106	He started his career as a businessman establishing weaving mills in Ohain , Lokeren , Tubize , Zele and Ghent . The mills of Tubize , Zele and Ghent would , years later , grow into the Usines Cotonnières de Belgique . From the establishment of the Caisse Générale d ' Épargne et de Retraite in 1865 , he became a member of its management board and became its president in 1889 . In 1869 he was appointed to the discount committee of the NBB , and a year later he became a director . He succeeded Eugène Anspach as vice-governor of the NBB in 1888 and as governor in 1891 . His term as governor of the NBB coincided with an economic revival after the economic depression which had lasted from 1873 until 1895 . Under his leadership the Public Depository as a new department was established at the bank . From now on people could deposit all sorts of valuables or securities , and the bank would take charge of the deposits . On 26 March 1900 the law came into force which for the second time extended the term of the Bank by thirty years .	Information/Explanation
360	This report summarises research in primary science and ICT , including a focus on scientific literacy and children's learning . The contribution and potential of ICT in primary science is evaluated . front cover The report identifies the need for focused and systematic research . It would be relevant for classroom practitioners , curriculum and software developers . The report is in five parts . Part one focuses on the debate about the meaning of scientific literacy and the question of what science should be taught in the primary curriculum . Part two focuses on the nature and value of primary science and includes some basic practical advice relating to the teacher's role . Part three provides a survey of some of the research relating to children's learning in science and begins to focus on the role of ICT . Issues of pupil age and gender as well as that of teachers' science knowledge are identified with reference to research findings . A discussion of the implications of a constructivist approach to science is undertaken , highlighting the following challenges : ' One of the principal problems a teacher faces when using constructivist approaches to science teaching is the consideration of the unique ideas and experiences 30 individuals bring to each new science topic . How can the teacher elicit and challenge all of these to ensure that children develop the desired scientific concepts ? How can s / he ensure that each child is involved in science investigation ? How can s / he promote group work with limited science resources so that children can co-operate in science projects ? ' p 20 The view is presented that the primary curriculum should be made more exciting and comprehensible by focusing on observation and description , leaving explanation for KS3 . ' The author of this report strongly recommends that primary children should not be taught aspects of science that are too difficult for their teachers . ' p 18 Part four evaluates how ICT is currently being used to support primary science based on different modes of use . The value of spreadsheets and databases as tools in the primary curriculum is discussed as outlined in the following extract . ' Poole ( 2000 ) , however , warns that primary children have used spreadsheets without going through all the preliminary stages such as selecting axis scales and deciding on the best type of graph to explore patterns in the data . He suggests that the key issue is the pupil's ability to handle and interpret the data , so that the use of ICT for graphing needs to be part of a well-coordinated programme for teaching graphical skills . When the use of spreadsheets is considered in terms of the skills , concepts and attitudes summarised in Table 2 ( see source ) , however , it appears that the only added value of using a spreadsheet in terms of primary science is the speed with which the data can be presented graphically . This could indeed prove to be problematic because if the children are not drawing the graphs for themselves , they may experience a ' conceptual gap ' between measurements and their graphical representation . McFarlane ( 2000b ) , however , argues that using the graphing applications of spreadsheets can allow data handling exercises to focus on presentation and interpretation rather than simple construction . The issue could be analogous to that of children using calculators routinely instead of mental arithmetic ' p23 The term ' drawing graphs for themselves ' may be the cause of confusion here . Rather than being an issue of the technology used to create a graph ( i . e . pencil , paper and ruler versus computer and software ) , it may be an issue of agency and experience in the design of graphs for differing purposes . Data logging is evaluated positively but issues of practicality are highlighted . CD-ROMs and the Internet are evaluated as a reference source . Examples of students' evaluations are included . E-mail , digital cameras , PowerPoint and Interactive Whiteboards are evaluated as a means of communicating concepts and understanding . The view is expressed that ICT can realise its greatest potential as support for presenting scientific information . Control technology , simulators and virtual reality are evaluated as a means for exploration and investigation . The final part of the report identifies opportunities for research focusing in particular on the subject knowledge of the primary science curriculum , the match of software to science learning , the impact of using spreadsheets and the design of CD-ROMs .	Information/Explanation
1678	Nearly everything we know about the universe comes from electromagnetic radiation – that is , light . Astronomy began with visible light and then expanded to the rest of the electromagnetic spectrum . By using the spectrum , from the short wavelengths of gamma rays to the long wavelengths of radio waves , astronomers have discovered strange and wondrous things . Now a new form of astronomy , gravitational-wave astronomy , has come . It watches not light but movements in space-time . Along with the new astronomy has come a new kind of observatory , the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory ( LIGO ) . 6 Gravitational Waves Are Ripples in Space-Time According to Albert Einstein's theory of general relativity , gravity is not a force reaching out through the universe . It 's a bending of space-time . When an object accelerates , it distorts the space-time around it , and that distortion travels away from the source at the speed of light . 5 Gravitational Waves Come from Really Heavy Objects So how massive an object are we talking about ? The first proof that gravitational waves actually exist came from a binary pulsar – two neutron stars , each about the mass of the Sun , that orbit each other . The pulsars' orbit is gradually shrinking , so the pulsars are losing energy . That energy is exactly the amount that general relativity predicts that the pulsars would give off in gravitational waves . 4 The Effect of Gravitational Waves Is Very , Very Small Since gravitational waves are a ripple in space-time , they cause the distance between two points to change ever so slightly . How slightly ? LIGO must be able to measure distances as small as 10 − 19 meter . The proton has a radius of about 0.85 × 10 − 15 meter , or 10,000 times larger . 3 Measuring Gravitational Waves Is Tricky To detect a change in distance much smaller than the proton requires great precision . Each LIGO installation is a laser interferometer made up of two underground pipes , each 1.3 meters ( 4 . 3 feet ) wide and 4 km ( 2 . 5 miles ) long , set in an L-shape . The inside of the pipes is a vacuum . When a gravitational wave passes through LIGO , one arm of the instrument gets longer and the other gets shorter . A laser beam is split in half , sent down the two pipes , reflected back , and then recombined so the two beams cancel each other out in destructive interference if there is no gravitational wave . If there is a gravitational wave , the beams wo n't cancel each other out . A 4-km long beam is still not enough to detect a gravitational wave , so the beams are bounced back and forth about 400 times so the light travels a distance of 1,600 km ( 1 , 000 miles ) . 2 LIGO Is Very Sensitive LIGO detects such a small change in distance that it can detect a lot of other vibrations too . For example , the speed limit at LIGO is 16 km ( 10 miles ) per hour to minimize vibrations from nearby cars . One source of noise is gravity gradient noise , which is the minute change in Earth's gravitational field when a vibration passes through the ground near the mirrors . The mirrors that reflect the light weigh 40 kg ( 88 pounds ) and hang by silica fibers in a complex suspension system . To make sure that LIGO does detect gravitational waves and not just passing cars , there are two LIGO installations – one in Livingston , Louisiana , and the other in Hanford , Washington . A gravitational wave would show up at both installations . 1 Gravitational-Wave Astronomy Can See an Entirely New Side of the Universe If supermassive black holes ( black holes one million times more massive than the Sun ) merged in a distant galaxy , LIGO could observe it . Scientists also expect that if a neutron star is slightly nonspherical , the gravitational waves could be observed and thus reveal much about the star's structure . Every time astronomers have been able to look at the universe in a new way , they 've always observed something unexpected , and gravitational-wave astronomy will likely show something not yet thought of .	Information/Explanation
1524	Little did Jessica know of covert operation to attempt a rescue of her from Section 31 's hold . Jessica was left has a presumed bait for the rescue team . When they beamed in they found that Jessica had already freed herself from her bonds and was quite scared and un-trusting of any that came near her . The all hell broke lose , has the small area erupted with the sounds of battle has a Section 31 strike team uncloaked and engaged with the two marine squads with fire from an experimental weapon system called the WAR ( Warp Accelerated Railgun . ) The battle however ended quickly enough for the marines where well trained and battle hardened . Even though they were severely out armed they were not out trained and were quickly able to adapt to the surprise attack and mount an effective counter attack . Once the battle was over Jessica , the rescue team , and one prisoner were teleported to the Rose's Iso-lab . It was there that Jessica as put back under the microscope in the hope to figure out the best means to control Lily . Has the test were run Jessica continued to battle her most difficult enemy of all , herself ... her memories . After Jessica was released from medical some time later she became a recluse not finding enjoyment in the company of others . Her days were filled with exercises aimed to gain control of Lily but that did n't stop the nightmares . Nothing ever stopped the Nightmares . Lily's Missions	Prose/Lyrical
1368	"In case you missed Raw last week and the ' overwhelming ' evidence from Vickie Guerrero about the affair between John Cena and AJ Lee , you get to relive it . They walked into an elevator together . Vickie Guerrero makes her way to the ring and she says that she is very proud of herself and her accomplishment . She is thrilled that AJ Lee resigned as General Manager of Raw . Vickie says that hanky panky is not allowed and people must act like professionals . That is something that John Cena has a problem with . Vickie wants everyone to join her and look back at this ' scandal ' . We go to video clip one . John asking AJ out ( remember that John said it was a joke ) . Video clip two shows a slow motion hug of John after AJ resigned . Video clip three is the elevator ride of lust . Then we go to John Cena's explanation of the situation because , heck John was there so he knows what happened . Vickie says that John will not stop her from showing . . . John says that he heard Vickie talk about running a clean show . John says that is like him learning another wrestling move and that ai n't gonna happen . John says that Vickie is going to expose this scandal , but he reminds Vickie that she was married to Edge when she was in charge of Smackdown . Then after Edge left her , she hooked up with Dolph Ziggler . John says that Vickie is not a cougar . Vickie says that John is employing the oldest trick in the book by turning the tables . We go to the newest video clip and AJ is wearing a bathrobe and she enters a hotel room . Vickie has footage from the alternate angle of the security footage . We see John Cena emerge from the room and he has a towel around his waist . Vickie asks John if it was one heck of a business meeting . John points out that the footage is from two different cameras . John admits to putting a Do Not Disturb sign on his door because he did not want to be bothered . Vickie suggests that AJ come out and tell her side of the story ( which Vickie will say is not true ) . AJ appears on the TitanTron and she is not happy . She tells Vickie that she does not want her to come out there . She says that if she goes out there to explain herself , she will give Vickie the beating of her life . Vickie will fire her and then she will be out of a job doing what she loves to do . Dolph Ziggler appears next to AJ and he says that we all know what she loves to do . Vickie cackles as John Cena goes to the back . One Response to "" Monday Night Raw Results – November 5th , 2012 "" last monday on raw vickie had more video of cena & lee . but vickie is going a little bit to on this , and that is enough of this . you 're be puching aj to somthing to you . Leave Us a Comment Here"	News
377	A current account that pays 5 % AER - a Moneywise award winner 06.07.05 For far too many of us , our relationship with our bank is all give and no take . But in a year that has seen banks competing for new business like never before , a new breed of accounts have emerged offering high interest on your balance , and low interest ( or even no interest ) on overdrafts . It 's even possible to find a bank whose customer service does n ' t drive you round the bend . In our second annual survey of British banks we examined the best banks for sensible money managers , serial overdraft dippers , and for those who just want an all round decent deal . For the first time the same bank took the title in EVERY category -- Alliance and Leicester . For up to date current account information visit our banking section	Promotion
400	Take a square piece of paper and fold it down the middle then open it out and fold along the lines AB in DIG . 1 . Now you should have a shape like DIG . 2 . DIG . 1 Now fold along the line AB in DIG . 2 you should get DIG . 3 . It is important that the fold AB is midway up the flaps created in STEP 1 DIG . 2 Now fold along the lines XZ on DIG . 3 and unfold having creased very well along these lines . Then fold them in the other direction creasing well and unfold . DIG . 3 Tuck the flaps produced in the previous step inside as the arrows show on DIG . 4 . This should give you DIG . 5 . DIG . 4 Fold the tip down along the dotted line in DIG . 5 to give DIG . 6 . DIG . 5 Now fold along the two dotted lines in DIG . 6 giving DIG . 7 . DIG . 6 To finish the model off fold along the dotted lines in DIG . 7 to give you the form at the top of the page . DIG . 7 Origami Paper Airplane Flying Lesson This plane is basically a dart . Throw it as hard as you can straight in the direction you want it to go overarm . It flies equally well indoors and out and does n ' t really have any lift or do stunts . It is just a challenge to make and a pleasure once you succeed .	Instruction
1093	"Reading : The Cultural Evolution of Neolithic Europe . EUROEVOL Dataset 2 : Zooarchaeological Data Data papers The Cultural Evolution of Neolithic Europe . EUROEVOL Dataset 2 : Zooarchaeological Data Author : Katie Manning University of Oxford , GB About Katie My research centres on the human response to climatic change and the evolution of dietary specialization in the context of Neolithic Europe and Africa . I am the co-editor of ' African Pottery Roulettes Past and Present : Techniques , Identification and Distribution ' and ' The Origins and Spread of Domestic Animals in Southwest Asia and Europe ' Abstract The datasets described in this paper comprises the animal bone data collected as part of the Cultural Evolution of Neolithic Europe project ( EUROEVOL ) , led by Professor Stephen Shennan , UCL , representing the largest collection of animal bone data for the European Neolithic ( Figure 1 ) with > 3 million NISP counts and > 36 , 000 biometric measurements . This is one of three datasets resulting from the EUROEVOL project ; the other two comprising the core spatial and temporal structure of the project , including all radiocarbon dates ( EUROEVOL Dataset 1 ) and archaeobotanical data ( EUROEVOL Dataset 3 ) - http://discovery.ucl.ac.uk/1469811/. How to Cite : Manning , K. , ( 2016 ) . The Cultural Evolution of Neolithic Europe . EUROEVOL Dataset 2 : Zooarchaeological Data . Journal of Open Archaeology Data . 5 , p. e3 . DOI : http://doi.org/10.5334/joad.41 ( 1 ) Overview Context This dataset was collected in the scope of the EUROEVOL project , representing the largest repository of faunal data from Neolithic Europe at the time of publishing . The time frame of the Neolithic in this part of the world broadly encompasses 8000 – 4000 BP , and is characterised by the spread of domestic plants and animals from the Near East alongside the development of novel ceramic and lithic technologies via two routes of dispersal ; a more maritime one , linking the Levant with the Aegean coast of Turkey and Greece into the western Mediterranean , and a more continental one linking central and northwest Anatolia with the more eastern part of Bulgaria and into continental central Europe [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ] . This spread of early agro-pastoral lifeways also correlates with fundamental changes in past human demography , ecology and social organization [ 5 , 6 ] . Figure 1 Map of northwestern Europe showing sample locations . The aim of the EUROEVOL project was to explain the patterns of stability and change associated with the spread and establishment of farming in Neolithic Europe in the light of new perspectives on human cultures and societies derived from evolutionary theory . The project focused on the western half of temperate Europe , where the available data are best . The project's most important conclusion is that the introduction of farming to Europe did not lead to a steady population increase , but was characterised by a pattern of ' boom ' and ' bust ' in many regions [ 6 , 7 ] . We did not find evidence that these could be accounted for by climate change alone , suggesting that it was internal factors in these early societies that led to them exceeding the sustainable limits of their socio-economic systems . In keeping with this , we found correlations between the population patterns and changing economic patterns [ 8 ] , as well as with investment in conspicuous monument construction and in the incidence of evidence for violence , which appears to be associated with societies exceeding their limits . We have also shown that the cultural transmission processes that produce distinctive patterns of similarity and difference in the archaeological record have recognisable signatures that can be identified from the archaeological material [ 9 , 10 , 11 ] . In addition , we have assessed the relationship between different dating approaches for the European Neolithic and demonstrated the underlying shape of the intensity of European Neolithic cultures through time [ 12 ] . Spatial coverage Central and northwest Europe Description : Poland , Germany , Austria , Switzerland , France , Czech republic , Denmark , Sweden , Belgium , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg , Netherlands and Britain and Ireland . Northern boundary : + 64 . 622N Southern boundary : + 42 . 618N Eastern boundary : + 23 . 963E Western boundary : – 10 . 457E Temporal coverage 8000 BP – 4000 BP Whilst the majority of data falls within this time range , some sites may have associated radiocarbon data that exceeds these boundaries . ( 2 ) Methods The majority of data in this dataset was obtained directly from source publications , as well as Masters theses , PhD theses and occasional unpublished reports . There are five main components of the faunal data , including the NISP counts of all taxa found , summary age data , summary sex data , instances of pathology and biometric data . The dataset utilises the same recording system as the archaeobotanical [ 14 ] and radiocarbon [ 13 ] datasets , as evidenced in the full published MySQL database found at http://discovery.ucl.ac.uk/1469811/. The MySQL dump file , which contains the full relational database for the EUROEVOL project can be downloaded and opened in any SQL interface , or alternatively , imported into MS Access . Steps The data collection process involved three primary approaches : 1 ) contacting specialists in the field of archaeozoology to request specific site reports and publications ; 2 ) Accessing libraries across the UK to access site monographs and journal articles ; 3 ) visiting regional museums and university departments across Europe to access published and unpublished reports on faunal data from site excavations . Once a report had been obtained , both a hardcopy and digital copy were made and these are kept on file at the Institute of Archaeology , UCL . Where necessary reports were translated , often using Google translate and other online translation programmes . Any additional data from the site e.g. stratigraphic information , radiocarbon dates etc. were also archived with the faunal report . If the site did not already exist in our database , its precise location was identified and recorded in decimal degrees . The site was then assigned a unique SiteID and details of the excavation and sampling strategy were recorded . An excel spreadsheet was made for each site , with the different faunal data components being assigned a separate worksheet , including all raw data relating to NISP , sex ratios , age trends , biometrics , pathologies and body part representation . At this stage of the data collection , the original format of the report was maintained . For example , if the analyst had recorded all bones at the context level , this information was retained in the excel spreadsheet . For the sake of consistency in the database all taxa were recorded as a seven-character code ( TaxonCode ) denoting genus ( the first four characters ) and species ( the first three characters ) affiliations . Once all the raw data had been copied , it was then aggregated at the level of the cultural unit , for example LBK , Michelsberg , Cerny , Chasséen etc. Each cultural unit was assigned a unique PhaseCode and these aggregated datasets were then recorded in the database . All faunal data could therefore be identified at either the site level ( based on SiteID ) , or at the phase level ( based on PhaseCode ) , and linked to other associated datasets , for example radiocarbon dates and archaeobotanical data . Each of the faunal tables are published alongside the associated spatial and temporal datasets and archaeobotanical data at [ 13 ] & [ 14 ] . Quality Control We have adopted a fully inclusive approach to the data collection , including all faunal data , irrespective of the date of publication or original analyst . The only exclusion criteria at the data input stage relates to the biometrics . Due to variation in the measuring protocol of different analysts , we have only included measurements that follow the von den Driesch [ 15 ] standard . This provides the largest possible sample size of broadly comparable biometrics . Similarly , the raw counts of demographic data e.g. age and sex consisted of several different quantification techniques . Hence , we have summarised this information in the database , recording simply the age / sex trend e.g. ' majority male ' , majority female ' etc. Additional comments on the demographic trends are recorded in the relative notes fields . All records have been checked to ensure that they are standardised wherever possible . For example , synonym species names , such as Pagophilus groenlandicus and Phoca groenlandica have been recorded under a single taxonomic name to avoid duplication , in this instance Phoca groenlandica . Constraints Occasionally a faunal report lacked any relative counts of the species represented , and simply identified the species present . These have been included in order to permit a presence / absence analysis . Equally some analysts appear to have been more cautious in their identification of wild vs domestic taxa . For example , due to the potential misidentification of Sus scrofa domesticus as Sus scrofa ferus , or vice versa , some analysts chose to record all pig remains as Sus sp . This was equally the case with cattle ( Bos taurus / Bos primigenius ) and horse ( Equus caballus / Equus ferus ) A comparative spatio-temporal analysis of the domestic taxa should therefore work only with phases where the taxa have been recorded to species level . An additional constraint on the species identification was encountered with the sheep ( Ovis aries ) and goat ( Capra hircus ) remains . Due to the difficulties associated with distinguishing between the osteology of sheep and goat [ 16 ] , the majority of ovicaprid remains were originally recorded as Ovis / Capra . It may be advisable therefore to group all sheep / goat remains in future analysis to ensure comparability between sites . Another potential constraint on the data relates to the differential sampling strategies of the original analysts . At sites where sieving was undertaken , there is often a greater representation of fish and bird bone . Any future analyses on these species should therefore take into consideration the sampling strategy , which is noted in the FaunalPhases table . ( 3 ) Dataset description Object name FaunalPhases – two files providing the data ( EUROEVOL09-07-201516-34_FaunalPhases . csv ) and field type definitions ( FaunalPhases_fields . csv ) for all phasecodes with associated faunal data , deposit type and method of recovery . The SiteID links to the CommonSites table described in the EUROEVOL Dataset 1 : Sites , Phases and Radiocarbon Data . FaunalTaxaList – two files providing the data ( EUROEVOL09-07-201516-34_FaunalTaxaList . csv ) and field type definitions ( FaunalTaxaList_fields . csv ) for the full taxonomic description in relation to the unique TaxonCode of all species represented in the database . FaunalSpecies – two files providing the data ( EUROEVOL09-07-201516-34_FaunalSpecies . csv ) and field type definitions ( FaunalSpecies_fields . csv ) for records of all species identified , age and sex trends , associated pathologies , and body part representation . FaunalBones – two files providing the data ( EUROEVOL09-07-201516-34_FaunalBones . csv ) and field type definitions ( FaunalBones_fields . csv ) for each bone assigned by PhaseCode and species with associated measurements . FaunalBiometrics – two files providing the data ( EUROEVOL09-07-201516-34_FaunalBiometrics . csv ) and field type definitions ( FaunalBiometrics_fields . csv ) for all measurements ( in mm ) associated with each bone as identified in the FaunalBones table . Data type Primary and secondary data Format names and versions . csv , SQL Creation dates Some records were created in 2007-2010 as part of the AHRC funded ' Origins and Spread of Stock-Keeping ' ( OSSK ) Project . However , the majority of records , and current MySQL database were created in 2010-2015 . Dataset Creators The primary researcher responsible for the data collection was Katie Manning . Records collected as part of the OSSK project involved Barbara Stopp , and entry of the biometric data was assisted by Eva Fairnell and Rebecca Rennell . Language English License CC0 Repository location The full relational database is available as a SQL dump file and the individual tables ( e . g FaunalPhases , FaunalTaxaList etc. ) are available as . csv files at http://discovery.ucl.ac.uk/1469811/. The SQL dump file can be imported directly into any SQL-based RDMBS , such as MySQL Workbench or Sequel Pro , with all relationships maintained . Alternatively the csv files can be imported into any other RDMBS such as MS Access . Publication date 28 / 07 / 2015 ( 4 ) Reuse potential This dataset comprises the largest single collation of animal bone data for the European Neolithic , and there remains considerable analytical potential for future researchers . The EUROEVOL data is particularly re-usable because the sample sizes are so large ( > 3 million NISP counts and > 36 , 000 biometric measurements ) , permitting robust comparative analysis between sites and regions , and across time . Furthermore , all data is fully georeferenced , offering considerable spatial analytical potential . The data is linked to associated archaeobotanical and radiocarbon data from the same site offering considerable scope for further palaeoecological and palaeoeconomic analyses that incorporate both the plant and animal bone data and in depth temporal analyses . This dataset will prove most useful for archaeozoologists . However , it may also be of benefit to geographers and palaeoecologists interested in past species distribution . The data would also provide a useful training dataset for student archaeozoologists interested in developing quantification techniques and statistical analyses of processed archaeozoological data . Competing Interests The author declares that they have no competing interests . Acknowledgements A number of researchers from across Europe were extremely helpful in providing bibliographies , copies of published reports and access to libraries and museums . In particular I would like to thank the following people : Arek Marciniak , Jean-Denis Vigne , Peter Rowley-Conwy , Simon Davis , Lila Janik , Linas Daougnora , Jorg Schibler , Angela von den Driesch , Manfred Schmitzberger , Aikaterini Glykou , Karlheinz Steppan , Roz Gillis , Cyril Marcigny , Peter Bogucki , Finbar McCormick , Jørn Zeiler , Wim Van Neer , Els Thieren and Svenja Holtkemeier . I would also like to thank the two anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments . References Perlès , C ( 2005 ) . From the Near East to Greece : Let 's reverse the focus . Cultural elements that did n't transfer In : Lichter , C ed . How did farming reach Europe ? . Istanbul : BYZAS , pp. 275 – 290 . Coward , F , Shennan , S , Colledge , S , Conolly , J and Collard , M ( 2008 ) . The spread of Neolithic plant economies from the Near East to northwest Europe : a phylogenetic analysis . Journal of Archaeological Science 35 : 42 – 56 , DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jas.2007.02.022 ğÇilingirolu , C ( 2009 ) . Of Stamps , Loom Weights and Spindle Whorls : Contextual Evidence on the Function ( s ) of Neolithic Stamps from Ulucak , Ìzmir , Turkey . Journal of Mediterranean Archaeology 22 ( 1 ) : 3 – 27 , DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1558/jmea.v22i1.3 Arbuckle , BS , Kansa , SW , Kansa , E , Orton , D , Çakırlar , C , Gourichon , L and Würtenberger , D ( 2014 ) . Data Sharing Reveals Complexity in the Westward Spread of Domestic Animals across Neolithic Turkey . PLoS ONE 9 ( 6 ) : e99845 . DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0099845 Bocquet-Appel , J-P and Bar-Yosef , O eds . ( 2008 ) . The Neolithic Demographic Transition and Its Consequences . New York : Springer , DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4020-8539-0 Shennan , SJ , Downey , SS , Timpson , A , Edinborough , K , Colledge , S , Kerig , T , Manning , K and Thomas , MG ( 2013 ) . Regional population collapse followed initial agriculture booms in mid-Holocene Europe . Nature Communications 4 : 2486 . DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms3486 Timpson , A , Colledge , S , Crema , ER , Edinborough , K , Kerig , T , Manning , K , Thomas , MG and Shennan , SJ ( 2014 ) . Reconstructing regional population fluctuations in the European Neolithic using radiocarbon dates : a new case-study using an improved method . Journal of Archaeological Science 52 : 549 – 557 , DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jas.2014.08.011 Colledge , S and Conolly , S ( 2014 ) . Wild plant use in European Neolithic subsistence economies : a formal assessment of preservation bias in archaeobotanical assemblages and the implications for understanding changes in plant diet breadth . Quaternary Science Reviews 101 : 193 – 206 , DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.quascirev.2014.07.013 Shennan , SJ , Crema , ER and Kerig , T ( 2015 ) . Isolation-by-distance , homophile and "" core "" vs "" package "" cultural evolution models in Neolithic Europe . Evolution and Human Behaviour 36 ( 2 ) : 103 – 109 , DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2014.09.006 Crema , ER , Edinborough , K , Kerig , T and Shennan , SJ ( 2014a ) . An Approximate Bayesian Computation approach for inferring patterns of cultural evolutionary change . Journal of Archaeological Science 50 : 160 – 170 , DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jas.2014.07.014 Crema , ER , Kerig , T and Shennan , SJ ( 2014b ) . Culture , space and metapopulation : a simulation based study for evaluating signals of blending and branching . Journal of Archaeological Science 43 : 289 – 298 , DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jas.2014.01.002 Manning , K , Timpson , A , Colledge , S , Crema , ER , Edinborough , K , Kerig , T and Shennan , SJ ( 2014 ) . The chronology of culture : a comparative assessment of European Neolithic dating approaches . Antiquity 88 ( 342 ) : 1065 – 1080 , DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0003598X00115327 Manning , K , Colledge , S , Crema , E , Shennan , S and Timpson , A ( 2016 ) . The Cultural Evolution of Neolithic Europe . EUROEVOL Dataset 1 : Sites , Phases and Radiocarbon Data . Journal of Open Archaeology Data 5 : e2 . DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.5334/joad.40 Colledge , S ( 2016 ) . The Cultural Evolution of Neolithic Europe . EUROEVOL Dataset 3 : Archaeobotanical Data . Journal of Open Archaeology Data 5 : e1 . DOI : http://dx.doi.org/10.5334/joad.42 Von den Driesch , A ( 1976 ) . A guide to the measurement of animal bones from archaeological sites In : Cambridge , Mass : Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology ."	Information/Explanation
121	"If you want to filter and customize the search results you see , use the options along the side of the results page . For example , you can choose to just see blogs updated within the last 24 hours or photos of a certain size . How to use search options and tools On the side of your search results page , click a filtering option to customize the search results page you 're looking at . We 'll automatically show you the tools and filtering options that are most relevant to your search . To see more , click More and More search tools to see all the available filters and views you can apply to that search . Since your options will vary based on the search and the filters you 've already used , you wo n ' t see all the options all the time . Try clicking on two or more options to form a more complex , more focused filter . To go back to standard unfiltered Google results , click Reset tools at the bottom of the panel . Filter results by type of content The top group of options will filter results by the type of web content you 'll see . Everything : By default , your Google search will show unfiltered results that can include all the types of content below . Images : See only results from Google Images . News : See only results from Google News . Books : See only results from Google Books including reviews , excerpts , and where you can buy the book . Videos : See only video results using Google's Video Search . Blogs : See only results from Google Blog Search . Places : See only results from Google Place Pages . Shopping : See only results from Google Product Search . ( With this option , you 'll see results within the Product Search site rather than in a Google search results page . ) Realtime : See only real-time updates from micro-blogs like Twitter , FriendFeed , Jaiku and others . Learn more about Google real-time search Discussions : See what people are saying in discussion groups , forums , and question-and-answer sites . Recipes : See only results for recipes . Customize and filter these results to show recipes with your ideal ingredients , cook time and calorie count . This feature is currently not available in all languages . Learn more about Recipe View You wo n ' t always see all of these options , so click More below your list to see all the available types for that particular search . Customize your results by location The location used to customize your results is clearly indicated on the left side of your results page . Our location detection technology will automatically set a location for you , but you can easily specify an alternate location . Filter results by other criteria Based on your search and the Google property you 've selected , you 'll see a customized list of filtering tools . We 'll automatically show you the tools that seem most relevant to your search , so you wo n ' t always see all of these tools . Here are a few tools that you might see : Publish date Limit results according to when they were published on the Web . Google tries to estimate the publication date for a page by using information such as the date when Google first indexed the page . See the options Any time : By default , your search results will not be filtered by date . Latest : Sometimes the top results that show up are a little dated , although they 're still relevant . The Latest option shows you results that are both relevant and fresh . Google automatically optimizes the time period used for your filter to make sure that the most relevant and recent results are included . ( This option is only available when Everything is selected in the first group of options . ) Past 24 hours / Past week / Past month / Past year : Use these pre-defined ranges of times to find webpages . For instance , the Past 24 hours option will help you find information about current events . Custom range : This option lets you define your own date range . Enter the dates you want to use in the format mm / dd / yyyy , then click Search . This option works best for pages published after 2001 ; to find historical mentions of dates , try using the Timeline tool . Personalization Limit the results to content that is more personalized to you . For example , see content from your friends ( Social ) or content from a geographical area ( Nearby ) . See the options Social : If you 're signed in to Google , see only social search results . You 'll see publicly-accessible content from people in your social circle that is relevant to your search . The idea is that content from your friends and social contacts is often more relevant to you than content from strangers . Nearby : Only see results that might be especially relevant for your preferred location indicated on the side of your results page . You can easily specify your preferred location . Web History : Limit the results to pages you have or have not already visited . If you 're signed in to your Google Account and have Web History enabled , you can use this tool to restrict your results to pages you either have , or have n ' t , visited in the past while Web History was enabled . Want to find something new ? Try Not yet visited . Need to remember a helpful site from last month ? Visited pages will focus your search . Display options This section lets you change the way results are displayed . The default Standard view shows you regular Google results , where each result is composed of the page title and a few lines of text ( also known as the "" snippet "" ) . See the options Sites with images : See image thumbnails from the page alongside the snippet for each result . They can help you quickly identify whether the page is relevant to your search term . For example , if you see an image of a furry little critter when you search for [ mouse ] , you can probably deduce that the page is n't talking about computer equipment . Translated foreign pages : Sometimes , the best results for your search are written in another language . Based on your search term , Translated foreign pages automatically chooses the best language ( or languages ) to search in , translates your search , and then translates the results back to the language you prefer to read . Our automatic language selection is n't perfect , of course , so if you 'd like to search specific languages , select them in the panel above the results . Timeline : See results along a timeline , which is especially useful if you 're researching information about a historical person or event . Click any section in the timeline to zoom in on that time period . To change the time range , click Search other dates above the timeline to enter new start and end dates . Alternatively , click the date links below the timeline to see results that mention that particular year , month , or day . Reading level : You can limit your search results to a specific reading level ( Basic , Intermediate , or Advanced ) . Learn more about the Reading level tool . Content type options When you select a specific type of content like Videos or Realtime , you 'll often see a set of tools that are unique to that selection . For example , if you select Images , you can filter image results by size , type , and color . Learn more about the search tools specific to Google Images . See definitions for your search term using Dictionary . You can also find synonyms , images , usage examples , and learn if the term is a word in other languages . Discover more results If you 're ever unsure about the precise terms you should use for your search , start out with a broader search term , then use these tools to discover alternative search terms . The Something different option lets you find parallel searches that you might find interesting . See the options Related searches : See related searches at the top of the results page . They 'll stay there , even as you scroll up and down , so you can easily compare and contrast results for different related searches . Wonder wheel : This option visually presents connections between related searches and your search term as an interactive diagram . Click the different nodes in the diagram to see how searches can branch out . Something different : The bottom set of links on the side of the search results page includes alternative queries to help you discover webpages that are indirectly related to your search . Learn more about the "" Something different "" links We hope these options help you explore and interact with your search results in useful ways . As we develop new ways to help you search , you 'll see new or changed options appear ."	Instruction
649	"I 'm 23 years old , I live with my parents and I am currently out of work . When I was younger , about 15 , I was a bit wayward . ( I suppose most teenagers are at some time ) . After I had left school I did n't have much going for me . One day early in 1997 I decided that I should do something with my life . I took a big step ; I went to live with some friends in Liverpool . After I had been there about two weeks I had got myself a job as a security officer , shortly after that I found myself a nice flat ( first floor ) . Things were looking up . Work was going well and I had the opportunity to apply for a site supervisor's job . I was gradually paying off my debts and everyone thought I was finally sorted out ( Including me ) . I met a man at work ; we got on well and started seeing more of each other . October 25th was his birthday and he asked me to go with him and his friends for a night out , I agreed . Whilst we were out his ex-girlfriend turned up . I was polite and tried not to upset her . The evening ended for me at the point when she attacked me . My head was bounced repeatedly off of a brick wall and as I hit the floor I was kicked in the side of my right leg . Two of his friends came with me in the ambulance to the hospital , but after I had waited about an hour I discharged myself without seeing a doctor . The next day I could hardly walk , my right knee was the size of a football and I could not turn my head . A friend came to see me and took me back to the hospital . After being kept in overnight they strapped my leg and gave me crutches put a collar on my neck and sent me home . I could n't do anything for myself , I tried to cope for about a week and then I phoned my parents and asked if I could come home . Of course two days later they came to get me . I got home on November 5th , the next day my dad took me to the local hospital . When I was finally seen by a doctor he said that the cartilage in my knee was split and that I had torn tendons and ligaments . My leg was put in a cast for three weeks to give these a chance to heal . When I had the cast removed the orthopaedic specialist was not happy , I was put on the ward and I went into surgery four hours later . I underwent an "" Arthroscopy "" , ( this is where they make two holes one each side of the knee and go inside to fix what damage there is ) . When I woke up and saw the doctor afterwards they told me that they could find no damage . I had months of physiotherapy and hydrotherapy , this helped slightly but I was still in chronic pain . For months they kept saying that they would n't give up on me , that they would find what was wrong and fix it , I believed them and lived in hope . In February 1999 a hospital specialist told me that there was nothing they could do for me , "" I 'm afraid you 'll just have to learn to live with what you 've got "" was close enough to what he said . I was angry , very angry , ( for a few days ) , then I was distraught , and as far as I could tell my life was ruined . I still suffer from severe pain and limited mobility , on a good day I only have to use one crutch but on a bad day I need both . I have to limit myself to what I can do , because there 's a lot that I would like to do but ca n't . It has taken me a long time to be able to say , "" I AM DISABLED "" and to try to believe it myself . I 've done three part-time computer courses and passed them all . I now ride a Suzuki GS750 Trike , and I also ride pillion on my fiancé's Triumph T ' Bird I can still go to rallies and shows but we have to stop quite frequently so I can rest my leg . I still have bad days ( like everyone ) but I realise now that things could be a lot worse and at least I 'm getting some of my life back ."	Opinion/Argumentation
1006	The Scarlets Christmas Roadshow kicks off on Tuesday 5th December in Owain Glyndwr Square , Aberystwyth . The Scarlets trailer will be in the square from 9am until 5pm where supporters will be able to purchase Scarlets goodies ready for Christmas or tickets in time for the visit of French ' Gallacticos' Toulouse on Saturday 9th December 3 : 00pm kick off . Members of the Scarlets squad will also be making an appearance , and will be happy to answer any questions or sign a few autographs , as well as handing out Scarlets team posters . On Tuesday the 6th December the Roadshow moves to Grayfriars Parade in Carmarthen before making a return to Castle Square in Haverfordwest on Wednesday 7th December and finally to the Elli Centre in Llanelli on Friday 8th December . For further information regarding the Scarlets Christmas Roadshow , please contact Mr Leyton Williams , Community Events Manger on 01554 783940 .	News
307	"Samson spared week from death 14 / 01 / 06 A DOG on death row with a taste for men in uniform has been given a reprieve . Magistrates had imposed a death sentence on three-year-old rottweiler Samson after they heard he had attacked a postman and a police officer . They were bitten in separate incidents while calling at the home of owner Mandie Jayne Henderson , in Newton Aycliffe , County Durham . Despite a previous order by South Durham magistrates for Samson to be kept under control after the attack on the postman , he bit the PC on the arm in the back yard of the house , in Booth Walk , last January . The officer , who was calling after a further complaint about the dog , retreated bleeding from puncture wounds . Magistrates imposed the destruction order at a hearing in August , and confirmed their ruling last month . But this week , eight days before he was due to be put down , Ms Henderson appealed against the sentence at Durham Crown Court . Her barrister , James Robinson , said that other than a clash with another dog while being walked by Ms Henderson's former partner , there had been no further incidents since the officer was bitten . Mr Robinson told the court that Samson was muzzled when taken for a walk . He said : "" She will do whatever is necessary to spare this dog . "" She did not believe he had to be kept muzzled when he was at home in the yard , but she can keep him muzzled all the time at home , if necessary . "" Judge Michael Cartlidge , sitting with two magistrates , upheld the appeal , sparing Samson , but imposed a number of conditions on 39-year-old Ms Henderson . These include keeping Samson muzzled and on a lead at all times when not at home . Warning notices must also be put up outside the house . Judge Cartlidge said : "" I hope this will ensure there is no further trouble in future . "" Leaving court , Ms Henderson said : "" He just does not seem to like men in uniforms , but I have had people at the house and he is as soft as can be with them . """	News
223	"Twelfth report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo Introduction The present report is submitted pursuant to Security Council resolution 1417 ( 2002 ) of 14 June 2002 , by which the Council decided to extend the mandate of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( MONUC ) until 30 June 2003 and to review progress every four months on the basis of reports of the Secretary-General . It describes developments until 11 October 2002 , since my report of 5 June ( S / 2002 / 621 ) and the special report ( S / 2002 / 1005 ) which I submitted to the Council on 10 September 2002 , following the agreements concluded recently in Pretoria and Luanda between the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Governments of Rwanda and Uganda , respectively . Political developments The period under review witnessed a number of significant political and military developments , in particular the signing of the bilateral agreements in Pretoria and Luanda , and the troop withdrawals undertaken by Angola , Burundi , Rwanda , Uganda and Zimbabwe ( see paras . These developments occurred while consultations among the Congolese parties on the establishment of a transitional government continued . Inter-Congolese dialogue The initial round of consultations among the signatories of the agreement concluded at Sun City , on the sidelines of the inter-Congolese dialogue , commenced at Matadi , Democratic Republic of the Congo , in May . The talks , which ended on 6 July , highlighted serious differences between the Mouvement de libération du Congo ( MLC ) and the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo concerning , in particular , the power-sharing arrangements for the Supreme Council of Defence and the procedure for designating the Prime Minister . In August , however , the participants reached agreement on the 167 articles of the transitional constitution . At my request , my Special Envoy , Moustapha Niasse , undertook an exploratory mission to the region from 13 to 30 June 2002 to ascertain the possibility of helping the Congolese parties to reach an all-inclusive political agreement . The Special Envoy began his mission in Lusaka and Addis Ababa , where he met the Chairman and the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity . He then visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo for discussions with President Joseph Kabila , Jean-Pierre Bemba of MLC and the leadership of the Rassemblement congolais pour la démocratie ( RCD ) - Goma . In Kinshasa , and later in Matadi , the Special Envoy met with political parties , representatives of civil society , and some armed groups . Subsequently , the Special Envoy visited Sir Ketumile Masire , the facilitator of the inter-Congolese dialogue , in Gaborone , as well as the Presidents of Gabon , Rwanda , South Africa and Zimbabwe , and the Foreign Minister of Angola , in their respective capitals . My Special Envoy's interlocutors stressed the need to reach an all-inclusive agreement and expressed their readiness to continue informal discussions under his auspices , on the understanding that any agreement reached informally would then have to be endorsed by the inter-Congolese dialogue . During the second phase of his mission , from 9 July to 17 August , the Special Envoy discussed with his Congolese interlocutors their views pertaining to power-sharing during the transition and , in particular , the structure of the transitional institutions and the distribution of responsibilities among the various State organs . He asked them to base their proposals in this regard on the objectives and principles agreed upon at Sun City . On 3 September , my Special Envoy started the third phase of his mission . The Government and the RCD-Goma delegations , which have been meeting in Pretoria since mid-September , seem to have reached a common understanding on a government structure and power-sharing formula . MLC has clarified its position in this regard and has had bilateral consultations with the Government and other parties . On 2 October , some representatives of the political opposition and civil society held consultations in Pretoria under the auspices of the Government of South Africa . My Special Envoy believes that the Congolese parties are close to reaching a political settlement acceptable to all . Developments in the wake of the Pretoria and Luanda agreements My special report on MONUC provided information on the withdrawal of foreign forces from the Democratic Republic of the Congo . Since then , the Ugandan withdrawal has continued and all Uganda People's Defence Forces personnel , numbering 2,287 , with the exception of a reinforced battalion stationed at Bunia and troops patrolling the western slopes of the Ruwenzori Mountains , have now withdrawn from the country . The Zimbabwe Defence Forces have also continued to withdraw . The total number of their repatriated forces as at 11 October was 3,477 . A small number of Angolan military forces withdrew at the same time . In addition , it was reported that , as at 11 October , 700 troops of the Forces armées burundaises had been withdrawn from the country . Most significant has been the withdrawal of the Rwandan Patriotic Army ( RPA ) , which commenced on 17 September . According to information verified by MONUC , as at 11 October , the total number of RPA forces withdrawn from the Democratic Republic of the Congo stood at 20,941 . The withdrawal , which began in Kindu / Kalima , was subsequently extended to the remainder of Maniema Province , as well as to Katanga and North and South Kivu . There were withdrawals from a total of 32 positions in the east . The troops transited through 21 assembly areas and reached entry points into Rwanda at Cyangugu , Bugarama , Gisenyi and Kanombe Airport , Kigali . MONUC observers were present at most of the 21 RPA assembly sites and at all exit points , where detailed certificates were prepared and signed by MONUC , as well as at entry points into Rwanda , where the numbers were again cross-checked . RPA has claimed that a total of 23,760 troops had been withdrawn . MONUC therefore asked for a formal explanation of the resulting discrepancy of 2,819 . MONUC has received some unconfirmed reports that RPA forces may have entered the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo , particularly around the Bukavu area , before the present withdrawal began , and that RPA may have left significant amounts of weaponry , as well as some of its personnel , with RCD-Goma . MONUC intends to verify these reports and to revisit those areas from which foreign forces have been withdrawn , in an effort to verify , together with the third-party verification mechanism , that all RPA troops in the Democratic Republic of the Congo have been repatriated . A thorough investigation may also require visiting the present locations of the withdrawn troops in the home countries . As mentioned in my special report , the third-party verification mechanism has successfully begun its activities . Its terms of reference were finalized and its procedures of work further developed . The mechanism has verified the departure of the declared RPA troops at various departure and arrival points . Prior to the withdrawal of those troops , the mechanism met with expert groups from the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda , in Kinshasa and Kigali respectively , to discuss the implementation of the Pretoria Agreement . As the withdrawal of foreign forces proceeded , the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 24 September declared all political leaders of the Forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda ( FDLR ) persona non grata , and ordered them to leave the country within 72 hours . FDLR had claimed leadership of many of the ex-FAR / Interahamwe elements in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , including those cantoned in Kamina . The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo was criticized by the Government of Rwanda and RCD-Goma for not handing over the FDLR leaders to the International Tribunal for Rwanda . The Prosecutor of the Tribunal announced , however , that none of the FDLR leaders were on the list of those indicted by the Tribunal . Eight members of FDLR left the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 2 October for Brazzaville , but they were arrested there by local authorities and deported back to Kinshasa the same day . They have since been held at the port of Kinshasa by the immigration authorities , pending further negotiations between the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of the Congo . In another significant development , Tharcisse Renzaho , the former préfet of Kigali , who is on the list of those indicted by the Tribunal , was arrested on 29 September in Kinshasa and transferred to Arusha . Situation in the north-east During the last three months , the overall security conditions in the north-eastern town of Bunia and the entire Ituri region have continued to deteriorate . There have been recurrent ethnic clashes since June , when the Union des patriotes congolais ( UPC ) , a primarily Hema militia , was reinforced and resupplied . On 10 July 2002 , following intense fighting between UPC and RCD-ML troops in the centre of the city , the governor and RCD-ML authorities fled to Beni , leaving Bunia in the hands of the militia . In mid-August , UPC continued its offensive and succeeded in capturing some of the district's important towns , such as Irumu , 80 km from Bunia on the road to Beni . The violence and the resulting displacement of the population have deepened the mistrust among the communities of Ituri , which is also related to the distribution of resources , as well as manipulation by both internal and external actors . After the signing on 18 April of the Sun City agreement , the Government sought to restore State authority in Ituri through cooperation with RCD-K / ML . The Government dispatched officials to Bunia and Kampala , in order to define the conditions for the extension of its administration and to discuss a timetable for the withdrawal of Ugandan troops . The reactions of the local factions varied , UPC , in particular , expressing its strong opposition to the proposed restoration of State administration . Subsequent events in the region , including the incident in which the Government's Minister for Human Rights was taken hostage , were covered in my special report . Increased violence in the Isiro region ( Province Orientale ) has also been sparked by the advance of RCD-N towards , and its occupation of , Faradje , Watsa and Nia Nia in territory formerly controlled by RCD-K / ML . MLC has reportedly reinforced and supported RCD-N with equipment , ammunition and personnel . The armed elements of the two organizations share the same name , Armée de libération du Congo ( ALC ) . Their activities seem to be driven in part by a desire for territorial strength as negotiations towards an all-inclusive transitional government progress . At the same time , there are indications that the Government is providing material support to RCD-K / ML , and that RCD-N is forging links with UPC . Situation in the Hauts Plateaux and South Kivu In the Hauts Plateaux area , to the north-west of Lake Tanganyika , RPA and RCD-Goma operations continued against the Banyamulenge group of Patrick Masunzu , which broke away from RCD-Goma earlier in the year . Prior to the initiation of the RPA withdrawal , there were indications that the bulk of this fighting was being conducted by RPA . From mid-August to mid-September , RPA captured some key airstrips , in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo , which it alleged were being used by the Government to deliver supplies to armed groups fighting RPA . In reaction to the growing popularity of Commander Masunzu , RCD-Goma "" purged "" some of its members suspected of siding with the Banyamulenge rebellion , in an effort to halt popular support for the movement in South Kivu . On 7 June , during a meeting in Bukavu , the President of RCD-Goma , Adolphe Onusumba , called for the formation of a "" unified front "" against the military operations led by Commander Masunzu . Subsequently , the reinforcement of RPA troops in the Uvira sector indicated that Rwanda might continue to feel threatened by the military resistance of Commander Masunzu and his supporters . However , the situation in the area is now reported to have changed with the withdrawal of RPA forces . According to unconfirmed reports , troops led by Commander Masunzu have reassumed control of the Hauts Plateaux region . Kindu In July , the population in Kindu and in the adjacent village of Alunguli reported outbreaks of intense violence as a result of fighting between RCD-Goma and the Mayi-Mayi . Subsequently , RCD-Goma troops reinforced Kindu and the RCD-Goma Deputy Chief of Staff assumed control over the movement's operations in the area . RCD-Goma subsequently launched an offensive from Kindu to drive Mayi-Mayi elements out of the region . Well-organized and equipped Mayi-Mayi launched limited but effective counter-attacks . Reports were received of indiscriminate killing of civilians in the course of the fighting , including at Kitongi where some 80 people , mostly women and children , were reportedly burned alive . In the wake of the RPA withdrawal from Kindu and Kalima , violence erupted on 19 September in Kindu town with a firefight between RCD-Goma and the Mayi-Mayi . While the violence subsided that same day with the mediation of MONUC , two Mayi-Mayi activists took refuge on MONUC premises in Kindu for a number of days . RCD-Goma , which made several public statements against MONUC , including specific threats by its President against United Nations personnel , remains in control of Kindu . On 21 September , RCD-Goma troops reportedly engaged in a number of targeted killings of suspected Mayi-Mayi supporters in the area . While the situation remains tense in Kindu , relations between MONUC and RCD-Goma have somewhat improved . Activities of the Mission and the United Nations in support of the peace process Military During the reporting period , MONUC continued to monitor and verify the new defensive positions of the parties , in accordance with its phase II mandate . It also continued to prepare for phase III activities . MONUC currently has some 90 military observer teams located at 50 sites ; 25 of these teams are mobile and available for deployment on a range of monitoring and verifying activities . In addition , 3,590 armed troops are protecting MONUC sector headquarters , logistic bases and coordination centres in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . MONUC therefore has a total of 4,258 military personnel , against a mandated ceiling of 5,537 ( see annex ) . The situation along the disengagement line remains generally stable . While a few positions continue to be occupied in contravention of the disengagement and redeployment plan , the Sun City agreement has had a positive effect on the status of the MLC / RCD-Goma and FAC separation line . The only major violation of the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement during the reporting period occurred in Pweto in June . The village , occupied by RCD-Goma authorities in violation of the Lusaka Agreement , was taken over by a group of Mayi-Mayi . A subsequent meeting of the Joint Military Commission in Kinshasa concluded with a joint communiqué indicating that the location should be handed over to the Government . However , on 29 June , RCD-Goma recaptured Pweto and remains there now . In Kisangani , following an incident in June when the local RCD-Goma Brigade Commander assaulted MONUC military guards at the Onatra port facility , MONUC has worked actively with local authorities to reduce tension and has stepped up patrols by its military observers . On 8 October , however , MONUC personnel , caught in a demonstration against RCD-Goma , were slightly injured and their vehicles burned . MONUC troops assisting at the scene were compelled to shoot in the air to disperse demonstrators surrounding them . The demonstration was apparently triggered by an alleged robbery attempt and assault by RCD-Goma elements on a university professor . As planning for phase III develops , MONUC is identifying and progressively establishing additional observation sites in the east , in order to create the conditions for future disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration operations and to monitor and verify the withdrawal of foreign forces from the country ( as noted in para . To this end , and subject to security conditions , MONUC plans to deploy military observer teams to Punia , Kalima , Shabunda , Walikale , Baraka , Bunyakiri , Kamituga and Lubutu in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo . At the same time , teams will be deployed to Lubumbashi and Kamina in Government-controlled territory , to verify reports of ex-FAR / Interahamwe presence in those areas and to monitor the airfields allegedly used to resupply armed groups in the east . In the meantime United Nations riverine operations continued , allowing MONUC to escort resupply and humanitarian relief barges . Consequently , the first commercial barge convoy in four years , accompanied by MONUC vessels , was dispatched from Kinshasa to Lisala and Bumba on 20 July ( see paras . 36 and 37 ) . Disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration With the conclusion of the Pretoria Agreement on 30 July , the ongoing withdrawal of foreign forces and the easing of political obstacles to the process of disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration , MONUC is refining its comprehensive strategy for this process , in cooperation with the United Nations agencies and international actors involved . This ongoing activity has been given further impetus by the increasing willingness of the Government to address the political obstacles underlying successful disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration , as well as reports by MONUC that several small to medium-sized groups of ex-FAR / Interahamwe may be considering participating in the process . MONUC intends to continue to implement ad hoc disarmament , demobilization and repatriation operations , pending deployment of the two task forces to be based in Kindu and Kisangani , as recommended in the special report ( S / 2002 / 1005 ) . In this connection , the French Ambassador in Kinshasa has recently announced his Government's intention to make available 1 million euros for disarmament , demobilization and repatriation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , for both Congolese and foreign armed groups . Since my eleventh report , MONUC has established a disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration presence in Goma , Bukavu and Butembo . Plans are under way for a similar presence in Kamina , Lubumbashi and possibly Shabunda to implement the process in an ad hoc way in those areas . Despite existing security constraints and the difficulties in accessing the armed groups , MONUC will continue to explore the possibility of opening additional offices and sites for reception centres in the east of the country . On 30 September , a first group of 69 Rwandan ex-combatants and 10 civilians left Kamina , where they had been cantoned by the Government , on an exploratory visit to Rwanda . MONUC had earlier succeeded in completing an initial screening of 1,981 combatants at Kamina in December 2001 , but could not complete their demobilization because of their refusal to provide the necessary information concerning personal identification and military background . The exploratory visit has clearly been facilitated by the signature of the Pretoria Agreement and the banning of FDLR , which was opposed to attempts to repatriate the ex-combatants . The group , which was accompanied by MONUC personnel and by South African representatives of the Third Party Verification Mechanism , was flown to Rwanda on MONUC aircraft and spent some 10 days in Kigali and their home communes . MONUC is following up on this exploratory visit with a view to repatriating all the ex-combatants at Kamina . In July , a MONUC disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration team in Beni demobilized Rwandan combatants among a small group of 46 persons , which included dependants and Congolese citizens , who had already been disarmed by the local RCD-K / ML authorities . Although the combatants agreed to be demobilized , they were reluctant to be repatriated . Accordingly , at the invitation of MONUC , the Government of Rwanda sent a team to persuade the ex-combatants to return home . Only eight have returned , however , although other members of the group now appear willing to consider repatriation . In July , MONUC held consultations with the Government of Uganda and the Ugandan Amnesty Commission , concerning a process of disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration for 300 to 400 Allied Democratic Front ( ADF ) combatants present in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . Provided that the security situation around Bunia does not deteriorate , this operation is expected to commence soon . It is to be conducted under the overall supervision of the Ugandan Amnesty Commission and MONUC , in collaboration with the International Organization for Migration and a Ugandan non-governmental organization , with the support of UNICEF and WFP . The Donor Technical Group on Uganda , which consists of prominent international donors , has agreed to finance the operation , in which the role of MONUC will be limited to disarming and demobilizing the ADF combatants in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . In the meantime , MONUC has undertaken efforts to further mainstream disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration within the Mission by intensifying internal consultation in the planning of future such operations during phase III . Such planning takes into account the recent political developments , such as the Pretoria Agreement , lessons learned from previous exercises of this kind conducted by other peacekeeping operations , and the Mission's experience in Kamina and Beni . As indicated in my special report , MONUC has established a Joint Coordination Committee for disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration and has continued its consultations with United Nations agencies , the World Bank and the diplomatic community , in order to refine the division of labour in respect of these operations and to transform the disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration concept into a joint operational plan . In this context , the cooperation of MONUC with the World Bank is crucial . The World Bank has initiated activities under the Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Programme for the Greater Great Lakes Region , which is designed to support the consolidation of peace in the region . The Programme was established to provide financial and technical assistance to national programmes , regional initiatives and special projects within the framework defined by the greater Great Lakes regional strategy for demobilization and reintegration endorsed by nine countries involved in , or affected by , conflicts in the region , as well as 30 partners from regional organizations , donor countries , international financial institutions and relevant United Nations agencies . Through the Multi-Country Programme , the World Bank and partners will be working closely with national Governments , as they are doing now with the Government of Rwanda , in preparation for reintegration programmes for returning ex-combatants from the Democratic Republic of the Congo . MONUC is collaborating closely with the World Bank to ensure that the process beginning with disarmament and demobilization of ex-combatants in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , for which MONUC will be responsible under the proposed assessed budget arrangements , continues seamlessly towards reintegration of the same groups in Rwanda , where the Rwanda Demobilization and Reintegration Programme , funded by the Multi-Country Programme , would assist former combatants in their transition to civilian life . Most recently , MONUC participated in a seminar conducted by the Bank in Nairobi from 17 to 21 September 2002 to facilitate dialogue between the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda with regard to the technical aspects of the implementation of the Pretoria Agreement . The seminar identified in some detail the main activities to be performed during the disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration operations , indicating where the responsibility for performing them lay . MONUC is mandated only to disarm , demobilize and repatriate the foreign armed groups listed in the Lusaka Agreement . However , circumstances might arise when Congolese groups or individuals might present themselves at a MONUC reception centre , to surrender their weapons in the hope of becoming eligible for some sort of national Congolese demobilization and reinsertion programme . Bearing in mind the responsibility it might be considered to have incurred in agreeing to disarm men in such circumstances , MONUC has also been consulting with specialized agencies and donors about steps it could take , within its mandate and resources , to facilitate their subsequent demobilization and reinsertion . A working arrangement on the ground with the participation of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo , MONUC and UNDP is being considered , for example , to assist with the disarmament , demobilization and reinsertion of Congolese armed groups into society . Reopening of the Congo River There were hopes that significant progress could be achieved towards the reopening of the Congo River after the signature in May of an agreement between the three main parties under the auspices of MONUC . On 20 July , 12 barges set off from Kinshasa to Lisala and Bumba ( northern Equateur ) in the first attempt to resume commercial exchanges in nearly four years . A further commercial convoy of four barges left Kinshasa on 8 October . This will be joined en route by at least four additional barges . In Kisangani , the RCD-Goma authorities continue to insist on convening a tripartite committee meeting to discuss "" technical issues "" with the Government and MLC before lifting all restrictions on river traffic . This demand reflects a disagreement between RCD-Goma and the business community in Kisangani over taxes . MONUC is actively trying to bring the concerned parties together to settle their differences . In the meantime , the slow progress towards an agreement between the three main parties continues to pose a serious threat to the restoration of the freedom of movement of people and goods on the river . Civilian police MONUC is preparing a detailed plan in regard to possible expansion of civilian police activities to meet the rapidly changing circumstances on the ground , especially in the light of the Pretoria and Luanda agreements . There are currently 52 United Nations civilian police officers deployed in Kinshasa , Kisangani and Goma . In accordance with Security Council resolution 1376 ( 2001 ) , the civilian police component is in the process of implementing a pilot project for training the local police in Kisangani . The programme includes a refresher course for already existing police units , and specialized training for traffic and court police , as well as for criminal investigators . The latter comprises training for police cadets , and an advanced training course for police inspectors . As part of the programme , MONUC will proceed , as soon as possible , and in cooperation with bilateral donors , with the refurbishment of the police training centre in Kapalata , as well as the procurement of basic materials such as uniforms , vehicles and communication equipment , through the special trust fund established by the Mission for this purpose . The first session of the short-term "" train-the-trainers "" course in Kisangani was concluded on 31 August and a second session was completed on 15 October . A refresher course for judicial police is to begin on 21 October . Public information Public information deployment and activities have reinforced the visibility of MONUC in all sectors of the Democratic Republic of the Congo . Radio Okapi broadcasts news programmes in five languages from Kinshasa to eight locations : Kisangani , Goma , Kalemie , Kananga , Mbandaka , Gbadolite , Kindu and , as from 6 October , Bukavu . These eight regional FM stations have also commenced locally produced programming . Three short wave transmitters have been installed in Kinshasa and will be fully operational by the end of October , covering the entire country and the region . Radio Okapi has started an information campaign on disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration with specific programmes in French , Swahili and Kinyarwanda targeting both the armed groups and the Congolese population . United Nations agencies have also increased their contributions to Radio Okapi programming . During the reporting period the publication information component of MONUC has produced 60,000 posters and 50,000 bumper stickers in five languages ; these are being disseminated throughout the sectors , by public information staff , military observers , non-governmental organizations and other cooperating partners . In addition , it produces and widely disseminates 5,000 copies of a monthly magazine in French to increase the public's understanding of the Mission's mandate and of new developments in the peace process . This component also issues a daily press review , which covers international media and press clippings , a weekly newsletter and a bi-weekly bulletin . At the same time the photography unit of the Mission has created an archiving system and makes regular contributions to MONUC publications , media requests , and the MONUC web site , www . monuc . org . The video unit has been reinforced and has produced an informational video on the Mission . It also produced a video on the disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration operation in Beni and disseminated it to the sectors . Full video coverage of the disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration operation in Kamina-Kigali was also produced and presented to the ex-combatants in the Kamina camp on 10 October before dissemination to all sectors , as part of the information campaign on that process . MONUC is also disseminating information to areas where armed groups are located . Radio Okapi and MONUC publications are increasingly being used to encourage combatants to disarm and repatriate . Three portable mobile radio facilities with FM transmission , to be used for this purpose , were recently procured and should be installed soon . There were several incidents in which local authorities harassed and intimidated Radio Okapi journalists . On 27 August , in Kindu , RCD-Goma military officers arrested and physically assaulted a Radio Okapi journalist . On 13 September , in Gbadolite , another Radio Okapi journalist was detained for eight days by MLC authorities for reporting on the condition of child combatants in the MLC forces . Human rights MONUC continues to receive regular information indicating that the human rights situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo remains precarious . In recent months , in areas controlled by the Government , there have been several cases of prolonged detention of human rights defenders , a wave of arrests of journalists and the heavy sentencing of some for imputations dommageables , the arrest and detention of relatives and supporters of the leaders of an opposition political party , the Union pour la démocratie et le progrès social ( UDPS ) , and cases of prolonged detention without trial on the order of the Military Prosecutor General . Information received by MONUC includes allegations of arbitrary killings and rapes and excessive use of force by the security forces of all the parties . The situation is particularly worrying in the east . MONUC is especially concerned about consistent reports of violence against women by security and armed groups . On 20 June , the international non-governmental organization Human Rights Watch issued a report documenting the systematic use of rape and other forms of sexual violence against women and girls by armed groups operating in the east . The victims do not always report these incidents , primarily for fear of rejection by their communities and of reprisals . Consequently , there is no appropriate treatment immediately available to these women and girls . MONUC is following up on this report with a view to increasing the protection of women and girls against rape and other violations of human rights . Widespread and grave violations of human rights and international humanitarian law continue to be perpetrated by the armed opposition following several armed conflicts between RCD-Goma / RPA on the one hand , and the Mayi-Mayi and uncontrolled , foreign armed groups on the other , especially in South Kivu and Maniema Provinces . MONUC continues to gather information and report on the conditions of detainees in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , where another aspect of the human rights situation is the deplorable state of prisons and other detention centres . Throughout the country , people continue to be detained without due process . Detainees are treated in a degrading and inhumane manner . Detainees who are beneficiaries of presidential amnesties remain imprisoned . The past three months in Kindu have been marked by human rights violations that have far surpassed the predicted worst-case scenarios . The crisis erupted in August , shortly after RCD reinforced its eighth Brigade with a new commander and chief of staff , both of whom were allegedly involved in the massacres of 14 May in Kisangani . In retaliation for a failed offensive against the Mayi-Mayi , the RCD-Goma soldiers summarily executed 46 civilians , including a 15-year-old boy , and seven members of the same family . In Kindu itself the President of RCD-Goma , in a radio broadcast , accused MONUC of complicity with the Mayi-Mayi . This speech was followed by an outbreak of violence against suspected Mayi-Mayi sympathizers , which reportedly resulted in the killing of 25 people . Most recent reports involve the public execution , on 22 September , of three RCD-Goma soldiers who robbed a trader and , on 6 October , the summary execution by RCD-Goma of six fishermen suspected of being Mayi-Mayi . The number and scale of gross human rights violations is growing rapidly and the situation demands greater protection of civilians under imminent threat of physical violence . Report of the Commission on Human Rights on Kisangani At the request of the Security Council , the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in cooperation with MONUC undertook an investigation of the events of mid-May in Kisangani , covered in the eleventh report on MONUC ( S / 2002 / 621 ) . From 16 to 22 June , the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial , summary or arbitrary executions of the Commission on Human Rights , Asma Jahangir , conducted a fact-finding mission to Kinshasa , Goma and Kisangani . On 16 July , the then High Commissioner for Human Rights , Mary Robinson , submitted a report on the Special Rapporteur's findings and recommendations on the Kisangani situation to the Security Council . The Security Council condemned the actions of RCD-Goma in Kisangani and demanded that the rebel movement bring the perpetrators of the killings to justice . Child protection The reporting period was marked by a disturbing upsurge in the recruitment of child soldiers . MONUC verified the existence of a training camp run by RPA in the area of Luvungui north of Uvira . Of the estimated 500 Mayi-Mayi in training at that location , between 50 and 100 were children under the age of 18 . The majority of the victims in the ongoing Hema-Lendu conflict in the area of Bunia are women and children . Among the hundreds of injured women and children admitted to hospitals in Bunia , 80 per cent suffer from wounds to the head , hands and extremities . The perpetrators used knives , cudgels , machetes and other sharp implements as their weapons . The fighting between UPC and RCD-K / ML forces in the north-east has led to a significant rise in the number of child soldiers being recruited by the forces in that area . In Bunia , the forces of Commander Thomas Lubanga have recruited large numbers of child soldiers . Although UNICEF , MONUC and non-governmental organizations continue to plan for and advocate child demobilization in rebel-held areas , rebel parties have not yet agreed to give the international community access to military sites . Discussions on the establishment of child demobilization subcommissions have not yet borne fruit . It is hoped that the latest UNICEF / RCD-Goma efforts will result in the establishment of a subcommission in Kisangani in the near future . Plans for the demobilization of child soldiers in the context of overall disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration are well under way . This is being done in conjunction with other relevant partners , most notably UNICEF . With the Government of Norway's financial contribution to support the peace process , the Child Protection Section has finalized a plan to augment the capacity of local non-governmental organizations to receive and aid possible child ex-combatants completing the disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration exercise in the Beni-Butembo area . Child protection advisers work together with UNICEF , which is providing similar emergency expansion capacity to local child protection non-governmental organizations in Bukavu in anticipation of needs related to disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration in the area . Gender issues Raising the gender awareness of MONUC personnel , agency partners and the population has been the focus of the work of the gender section . The medium - to long-term objective is to ensure the integration of a gender perspective into all aspects of the Mission's work . On 23 July , the gender section convened a strategic planning meeting with the Mission's military and civilian staff to create an action plan for integrating the concept of gender into all MONUC activities . The next step will be to form Mission-wide gender working groups to assess the gender dimensions of the Mission's work and ensure that gender concerns are accounted for in all of its activities . Sessions on gender sensitivity also continue to be a regular part of the induction programmes offered to all incoming military , civilian and civilian police staff . This is in addition to the gender awareness training of trainers for the local police in Kisangani . Meetings with Congolese civil society organizations , media , and church organizations across the country to discuss their views on the peace process are still being held . The major outcome of such work is to harmonize the vision of women's groups from the east and the west so that they can work out strategies to ensure their full participation in the implementation of the Nairobi Declaration adopted prior to the inter-Congolese dialogue . A plan of action to address the reports of violence against women in the east was also discussed by various stakeholders . Humanitarian activities Humanitarian conditions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo remain deeply disturbing . Civilians continue to bear the brunt of the crisis . Approximately 17 million people – almost a third of the country's population of approximately 53 million – are in need of urgent food aid , while approximately 2.2 million people are displaced within the country . During the reporting period , significant new displacement was reported in Ituri and Maniema Provinces . Women , children and the elderly are the most affected by the conflict . A humanitarian assessment team comprising the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator and representatives of MONUC travelled to Minembwe-Itombwe on 2 August , under the protection of RPA . The team was , however , denied access to other areas further west in the Hauts Plateaux , where there had been fighting between RCD-Goma / RPA and Commander Masunzu's forces 48 hours before the mission . On 3 August , the team travelled to Fizi-Baraka , but a hostile crowd of civilians and soldiers prevented them from leaving the airport . The mission was successfully completed on 8 August , however . The Humanitarian Coordinator described the situation in the border region of Uvira , the Hauts Plateaux and Fizi-Baraka as a "" creeping disaster "" , with over 100 villages deserted and 20,000 newly displaced families , bringing the total number of internally displaced people in South Kivu to an estimated 400,000 . In the context of continuous military offensives against Masunzu's stronghold , humanitarian assistance in the area remains limited to ad hoc interventions conducted by the International Committee of the Red Cross . Humanitarian affairs officers have witnessed an increase in recent months in the harassment of relief workers and the looting of their assets . Humanitarian staff in Bunia and Dungu experienced threats of physical violence and looting , which in Bunia resulted in the loss of nearly 14 tons of food destined for vulnerable populations . Several humanitarian teams were evacuated , most notably from Shabunda and Nyankunde . In many areas where there is widespread insecurity , health conditions are reported to have deteriorated alarmingly , and there is evidence of very high malnutrition rates among the populations . Access to war-affected areas remains critical for humanitarian partners . The deteriorating humanitarian situation against the backdrop of planned disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration activities requires a reinvigorated humanitarian effort that expands coverage to more locations . Following consultations with the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and other United Nations and non-governmental partners , MONUC will shortly extend its humanitarian presence beyond its current locations in Kinshasa , Mbandaka , Bukavu , Kisangani , Gbadolite , Kalemie and Goma to under-served locations with significant humanitarian needs . MONUC logistical capabilities have been a great asset to the humanitarian community's relief efforts in the country . From June to September , MONUC transported more than 95 tons of humanitarian cargo . MONUC also supported the 2002 National Polio Vaccination Campaign during those months ; the campaign achieved 85 to 90 per cent coverage . Mine action While less of a hazard than in other mission areas , mines and unexploded ordnance are still present in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . Most mines were planted in 1999 and 2000 . In particular , the areas of Kisangani and Ikela are heavily mined . Reportedly , FAC , RCD , UPDF and RPA frequently used mines in the Mbuji-Mayi , Kabinda , Kabalo , Pweto , Beni , Buta and Tshopo areas . As a consequence of the conflict in Burundi , landmines were planted in Kivu in the Uvira region , close to the Burundi border . It is believed that Uvira , Baraka , Makobolo and the Ruzizi Valley are mined . Reportedly , UPC has also used mines in the recent fighting around Bunia . MONUC works in close collaboration with the Mine Action Coordination Centre , with offices in Kinshasa and Kisangani . MONUC and the Centre share a database on mines and unexploded ordnance and have well-defined standard operational procedures . Mine-clearing activities conducted in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are limited to the work of a Belgian non-governmental organization which works closely with the Mine Action Coordination Centre , local partners and MONUC military engineers . Demining activities in support of MONUC operations in Kindu are currently under contract negotiation , while the contract in Kisangani has been finalized . Quick-impact projects In enhancing its effectiveness , MONUC is endeavouring to engage actively with the local population as a means of winning the support necessary to carry out its mandate . The Mission has made extensive use of quick-impact projects , with a view to making a demonstrable , positive difference in the lives of the people where MONUC is deployed and to enhance its credibility with the local population . MONUC has focused on high visibility projects in the areas of restoration or enhancement of water services and water purification ; provision of public sanitation ; provision of basic medical equipment and medical supplies ; repairs to school buildings and provision of basic school furniture / materiel ; repairs to hospitals / medical facilities ; and repairs to basic community infrastructure . The Mission's phase III activities , outlined in the special report , will imply deployment into new areas in the east , most of which have suffered from years of conflict . It will be essential for the success of the phase III activities to continue reaching out to the local population to ensure their acceptance of the Mission , and therefore to extend funding for quick-impact projects during phase III . Review and assessment mission The Department of Peacekeeping Operations sent a review and assessment mission to MONUC from 28 July to 8 August , led by former Assistant Secretary-General Manfred Eisele . The aim of the mission was to review the present capability of MONUC to implement its mandate and to meet future challenges , especially in the face of major changes in the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . The review team , which travelled all over the Mission area , examined various aspects of the MONUC operations and also met with members of the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda as well as the diplomatic community in Kinshasa and Kigali . The review mission found MONUC staff members to be active and committed to fulfilling the Mission's mandate . They were extremely frank with the review mission in expressing their views on how MONUC could improve its activities as it geared up for phase III activities . The mission found that the main areas in need of enhancement include the setting of overall strategic direction and communication of such direction throughout the Mission and beyond ; strengthening management of the Mission through the appointment of a second deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General for operations and management , strengthening a number of key posts and ensuring that the Mission is properly staffed ; reviewing the delegation of authority and ensuring appropriate command and control arrangements throughout the Mission ; enhancing information flows and policy and analysis functions , as well as coordination of activities throughout all components of the Mission ; and ensuring that the disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration programme is "" mainstreamed "" through the Mission and is provided with the full support of all components . The report of the assessment mission was presented to me on 1 October , and the members of the Security Council and troop-contributing countries were briefed on the main elements . Subsequent to my approval of the review mission's wide-ranging recommendations , the Department of Peacekeeping Operations has initiated an action plan so that MONUC can more effectively implement its mandate . In due course , the Department will conduct a review of the implementation of these important recommendations . Logistical activities As MONUC continues its eastward deployment and intensifies the preparations for the launching of a full-scale disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration operation , the daunting logistical support tasks that lie ahead become ever more apparent . Arrangements for the deployment of the two task forces and setting up of temporary reception centres would involve a carefully planned and coordinated engineering effort , requiring an integrated civilian and military approach to optimize the use of the limited engineering resources available in MONUC . Since many of the reception centres may be located in remote and scattered locations with poor or no road access , additional air assets will be required to deploy personnel and equipment to establish , operate and dismantle the centres and associated accommodation camps for ex-combatants and possibly their dependants . Consideration will also have to be given to modalities and funding arrangements for the transportation of the combatants and their families ( estimated at around 90,000 persons ) from the reception centres to their final destinations . Additional technical expertise for the upkeep of airfields associated with centres and camps and to support air operations in general will also need to be considered . The capacities of the logistic bases in Kinshasa and Kisangani will be increased and a new logistic base at Kigoma , United Republic of Tanzania , is being considered to optimize the delivery of equipment and stores . Since logistics operations involving the mobile disarmament and demobilization sites will be complex , the two task forces will have to be self-sustained , and it is expected that all major contingent-owned equipment will be provided under "" wet lease "" arrangements . The task forces will also need to have sufficient integral engineering and aviation assets to support MONUC operations in the specific areas of the establishment of disarmament , demobilization and reintegration reception centres and associated camps , water purification , maintenance of runways / landing grounds and local access road networks , airfield support services and operational demining tasks . Financial aspects The General Assembly , by its resolution 56 / 252 C of 27 June 2002 , appropriated an amount of $ 581 . 9 million for MONUC for the period from 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003 . Since its establishment in October 1999 , the Trust Fund to support the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has received voluntary contributions amounting to $ 1 . 1 million , with expenditures authorized to date in the full amount . As at 31 August 2002 , unpaid assessed contributions to the MONUC special account amounted to $ 322 . 9 million . The total outstanding assessed contributions for all peacekeeping operations at that date amounted to $ 1 , 781 . 1 million . Observations Since my last progress report to the Security Council , there have been significant developments in the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . The signing of the Pretoria and Luanda agreements , the consequent withdrawals of foreign forces from the country , the arrest of three persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda in Luanda , Brazzaville and Kinshasa , the banning of the FDLR leadership based in Kinshasa , the successful exploratory visit to Rwanda of a group of ex-combatants and their dependants from Kamina , and the increased contacts between the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda and Uganda are all major steps which can have lasting , positive implications for the political and military situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . The parties should be congratulated for the political will they have demonstrated in moving the peace process forward . Nevertheless , there continue to be serious challenges . Heavy fighting continues in the north-eastern and eastern parts of the country . The fragile peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and recent gains made in the implementation of the Pretoria Agreement are in serious danger of being reversed because of the most recent military offensive undertaken against Uvira and other key locations in the east . I urge all parties to put an end to all hostilities and take advantage of the positive atmosphere and opportunities created by recent developments in the country , and especially welcome the role of the Government of South Africa in its persistent effort to keep the peace process on track . The situation in the Ituri region remains worrying . My previous progress reports described the continuing violence and abuses in that area , which have worsened recently . All parties concerned should now work together to promote confidence . I commend the establishment in the Ituri region of the Joint Pacification Commission , under the terms of the Luanda Agreement , and hope that it will serve to restore peace and stability in this troubled region of the country . Equally , the human rights situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is a source of grave concern . The current culture of impunity that exists in many parts of the country must end , and those responsible for serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law must be held accountable . The recent arrests of individuals indicted by the Tribunal and their transfer to Arusha is encouraging in this regard . I strongly condemn the threats and harassment against MONUC staff , including those working for Radio Okapi . The instigators of the latest incidents in Kisangani and elsewhere in the Democratic Republic of the Congo bear responsibility for such acts and must understand that , in order for peace and normalcy to return to the country , the safety and security of United Nations personnel must be guaranteed . There must also be a free flow of information ; the role of Radio Okapi is fundamental in this process . As the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo moves forward , the disarmament , demobilization , repatriation , resettlement and reintegration of foreign armed groups will become a central part of MONUC operations . The Mission has been active in promoting the early implementation of this crucial programme . I am gratified by the close collaboration between MONUC and the different international partners , including the United Nations agencies and programmes , the World Bank , and other members of the donor community ; the United Nations is determined to strengthen this vital coordination . The progress achieved so far in the inter-Congolese dialogue is encouraging . The increasing willingness of the various political actors to engage and address their counterparts is a welcome sign . In this regard , I urge all parties to be guided by the interests of the Congolese people . I believe it is essential to look beyond the distribution of posts in the transitional administration leading towards a new political dispensation , and to begin addressing issues such as security sector reform and the extension of State authority throughout the country . Above all , the Congolese leadership must focus on the creation of a reformed and revitalized State that can meet the aspirations of its people . We must not allow the present opportunity to be lost . I also call on all parties to cooperate in the mediation efforts of my Special Envoy , Moustapha Niasse , and the Government of South Africa , with a view to reaching an early understanding on the transitional arrangements foreseen under the Lusaka Agreement . The United Nations will continue to do its utmost and work with the Congolese parties and people to achieve these aims . To do so , the full support of the international community is needed . In my special report , I have already referred to the need to give strong impetus to the peace process . I once again encourage the Security Council to take the necessary decisions in this regard . Finally , I wish to express my appreciation to my Special Representative , Amos Namanga Ngongi , to the Force Commander , Major General Mountaga Diallo , and to all the men and women of MONUC , military and civilian , for their untiring efforts under the very challenging circumstances still prevailing in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . Annex United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo : military and civilian police strength ( as at 10 October 2002 ) Map to be attached in shop"	News
814	3 . The statistical theory of thermodynamics Previous : 1 . Classical Thermodynamics : the first law 2 . Classical Thermodynamics : The second law In this section , we start from the experimental fact that heat engines are never 100 % efficient , and also that there is a natural direction to spontaneous processes ( such as the cooling of a cup of coffee ) , and derive the existence of a new function of state , entropy . In classical thermodynamics , entropy '' completes the set '' of relevant thermodynamic variables and , starting with the fundamental thermodynamic relation and using Maxwell's relations , enables us to work out what is happening to systems during a variety of processes . The underlying meaning of entropy however is only clarified when we progress to statistical physics . ( Some of the early part of this section will be revision , but the overall approach to entropy is new . ) Subsections 2.1 Heat Engines and Refrigerators 2.2 The Second Law of Thermodynamics 2.3 Carnot cycles 2.4 Thermodynamic Temperature 2.5 Entropy 2.6 Examples of entropy changes 2.7 The Fundamental Thermodynamic Relation 2.8 Thermodynamic potentials 2.9 The approach to equilibrium 2.10 Use of Gibbs Free Energy : Phase Transitions 2.11 Available work 2.12 Maxwell's Relations 2.13 Heat Capacities 2.14 Systems with more than one component	Information/Explanation
260	Web Journal of Current Legal Issues in association with Blackstone Press Ltd Bruce Grant and Mike Allen , University of Newcastle upon Tyne http://webjcli.ncl.ac.uk / The Web Journal of Current Legal Issues is the first United Kingdom general law journal to be published purely electronically using World Wide Web . The journal is refereed and published bi-monthly . The first issue was mounted on the Web on 17 March 1995 and the second issue will be mounted in mid-May . Notes for Contributors may be obtained directly from the journal site or from Mike Allen at Newcastle Law School . The journal is the brainchild of Mike Allen and Bruce Grant of Newcastle Law School , at the University of Newcastle upon Tyne . Mike is the journal's editor and drew together a strong Editorial Board of fourteen members from a number of law schools around the country comprising a Committee of seven members responsible for the editing of the journal supported by seven advisory members . Refereed electronic journals have received recognition from HEFCE for the purposes of the next Research Assessment Exercise , the approach of which has helped generate material for the journal . The journal is published in association with Blackstone Press who are under-writing the venture and who will publish the Blackstone Yearbook of Current Legal Issues which will contain all the articles which appear in the journal . Design and presentation of the journal has been the responsibility of Bruce Grant . Contributions are accepted in data form only , whether by e-mail or on disk . After assessment by the relevant member of the editorial committee and refereeing , the contribution is marked up with HTML tags for browsing on the Web and also converted to rich text format to facilitate printing . The use of postcript files for printing was considered , and may yet be adopted in addition to rtf , but on the whole rtf was felt to be the more commonly acceptable format . Because the journal is first published electronically , it has not been thought sensible to provide page numbers . Traditionally a page-count has been used as a rough measure of the length of articles , but perhaps , as e-journals become established , a word-count will be seen as a better , and universally applicable method of comparison . One of the major advantages of electronic publishing is that articles and comments accepted for publication will be published promptly in the next issue as an electronic law journal does not suffer from space constraints . Too often , long delays between submission of articles and their publication has served to rob many of their topicality and much of their potential impact . This factor of speed of publication has helped provide the focus for the journal which is on current legal issues in judicial decisions , law reform , legislation , legal research , policy related socio-legal research , legal education , information technology and practice . While the focus of the journal is on current legal issues in the United Kingdom ( including European Union matters ) , the editors are keen to receive contributions which adopt a comparative approach . The editors are also keen to encourage academic debate and will welcome responses to articles or comments previously published . Undoubtedly electronic publishing will increase in the future as the potential of the medium is realised . In the first issue of the journal a taster of this potential was provided in an article by Robin Widdison , Director of the Centre for Law and Computing at the University of Durham , which contained links to other sites on the Internet . As more materials are published in this way such links will become more frequent and will totally alter the way in which we write articles or , for that matter , read them . Published in the Law Technology Journal : Vol 4 , No 1 Original publication date : May 1995 Web publication date : April 1997	Information/Explanation
71	"Chapter 8 It was long past noon when he awoke . His valet had crept several times on tiptoe into the room to see if he was stirring , and had wondered what made his young master sleep so late . Finally his bell sounded , and Victor came softly in with a cup of tea , and a pile of letters , on a small tray of old Sevres china , and drew back the olive-satin curtains , with their shimmering blue lining , that hung in front of the three tall windows . "" Monsieur has slept well this morning , "" he said , smiling . "" What o ' clock is it , Victor ? "" asked Dorian Gray drowsily . "" One hour and a quarter , Monsieur . "" How late it was ! He sat up , and having sipped some tea , turned over his letters . One of them was from Lord Henry , and had been brought by hand that morning . He hesitated for a moment , and then put it aside . The others he opened listlessly . They contained the usual collection of cards , invitations to dinner , tickets for private views , programmes of charity concerts , and the like that are showered on fashionable young men every morning during the season . There was a rather heavy bill for a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set that he had not yet had the courage to send on to his guardians , who were extremely old-fashioned people and did not realise that we live in an age when unnecessary things are our only necessities ; and there were several very courteously worded communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders offering to advance any sum of money at a moment's notice and at the most reasonable rates of interest . After about ten minutes he got up , and throwing on an elaborate dressing-gown of silk-embroidered cashmere wool , passed into the onyx-paved bathroom . The cool water refreshed him after his long sleep . He seemed to have forgotten all that he had gone through . A dim sense of having taken part in some strange tragedy came to him once or twice , but there was the unreality of a dream about it . As soon as he was dressed , he went into the library and sat down to a light French breakfast that had been laid out for him on a small round table close to the open window . It was an exquisite day . The warm air seemed laden with spices . A bee flew in and buzzed round the blue-dragon bowl that , filled with sulphur-yellow roses , stood before him . He felt perfectly happy . Suddenly his eye fell on the screen that he had placed in front of the portrait , and he started . "" Too cold for Monsieur ? "" asked his valet , putting an omelette on the table . "" I shut the window ? "" Dorian shook his head . "" I am not cold , "" he murmured . Was it all true ? Had the portrait really changed ? Or had it been simply his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there had been a look of joy ? Surely a painted canvas could not alter ? The thing was absurd . It would serve as a tale to tell Basil some day . It would make him smile . And yet , how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing ! First in the dim twilight , and then in the bright dawn , he had seen the touch of cruelty round the warped lips . He almost dreaded his valet leaving the room . He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the portrait . He was afraid of certainty . When the coffee and cigarettes had been brought and the man turned to go , he felt a wild desire to tell him to remain . As the door was closing behind him , he called him back . The man stood waiting for his orders . Dorian looked at him for a moment . "" I am not at home to any one , Victor , "" he said with a sigh . The man bowed and retired . Then he rose from the table , lit a cigarette , and flung himself down on a luxuriously cushioned couch that stood facing the screen . The screen was an old one , of gilt Spanish leather , stamped and wrought with a rather florid Louis-Quatorze pattern . He scanned it curiously , wondering if ever before it had concealed the secret of a man's life . Should he move it aside , after all ? Why not let it stay there ? What was the use of knowing . ? If the thing was true , it was terrible . If it was not true , why trouble about it ? But what if , by some fate or deadlier chance , eyes other than his spied behind and saw the horrible change ? What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own picture ? Basil would be sure to do that . No ; the thing had to be examined , and at once . Anything would be better than this dreadful state of doubt . He got up and locked both doors . At least he would be alone when he looked upon the mask of his shame . Then he drew the screen aside and saw himself face to face . It was perfectly true . The portrait had altered . As he often remembered afterwards , and always with no small wonder , he found himself at first gazing at the portrait with a feeling of almost scientific interest . That such a change should have taken place was incredible to him . And yet it was a fact . Was there some subtle affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped themselves into form and colour on the canvas and the soul that was within him ? Could it be that what that soul thought , they realised ? – that what it dreamed , they made true ? Or was there some other , more terrible reason ? He shuddered , and felt afraid , and , going back to the couch , lay there , gazing at the picture in sickened horror . One thing , however , he felt that it had done for him . It had made him conscious how unjust , how cruel , he had been to Sibyl Vane . It was not too late to make reparation for that . She could still be his wife . His unreal and selfish love would yield to some higher influence , would be transformed into some nobler passion , and the portrait that Basil Hallward had painted of him would be a guide to him through life , would be to him what holiness is to some , and conscience to others , and the fear of God to us all . There were opiates for remorse , drugs that could lull the moral sense to sleep . But here was a visible symbol of the degradation of sin . Here was an ever-present sign of the ruin men brought upon their souls . Three o ' clock struck , and four , and the half-hour rang its double chime , but Dorian Gray did not stir . He was trying to gather up the scarlet threads of life and to weave them into a pattern ; to find his way through the sanguine labyrinth of passion through which he was wandering . He did not know what to do , or what to think . Finally , he went over to the table and wrote a passionate letter to the girl he had loved , imploring her forgiveness and accusing himself of madness . He covered page after page with wild words of sorrow and wilder words of pain . There is a luxury in self-reproach . When we blame ourselves , we feel that no one else has a right to blame us . It is the confession , not the priest , that gives us absolution . When Dorian had finished the letter , he felt that he had been forgiven . Suddenly there came a knock to the door , and he heard Lord Henry's voice outside . "" My dear boy , I must see you . Let me in at once . I ca n ' t bear your shutting yourself up like this . "" He made no answer at first , but remained quite still . The knocking still continued and grew louder . Yes , it was better to let Lord Henry in , and to explain to him the new life he was going to lead , to quarrel with him if it became necessary to quarrel , to part if parting was inevitable . He jumped up , drew the screen hastily across the picture , and unlocked the door . "" I am so sorry for it all , Dorian , "" said Lord Henry as he entered . "" But you must not think too much about it . "" "" Do you mean about Sibyl Vane ? "" asked the lad . "" Yes , of course , "" answered Lord Henry , sinking into a chair and slowly pulling off his yellow gloves . "" It is dreadful , from one point of view , but it was not your fault . Tell me , did you go behind and see her , after the play was over ? "" "" Yes . "" "" I felt sure you had . Did you make a scene with her ? "" "" I was brutal , Harry – perfectly brutal . But it is all right now . I am not sorry for anything that has happened . It has taught me to know myself better . "" "" Ah , Dorian , I am so glad you take it in that way ! I was afraid I would find you plunged in remorse and tearing that nice curly hair of yours . "" "" I have got through all that , "" said Dorian , shaking his head and smiling . "" I am perfectly happy now . I know what conscience is , to begin with . It is not what you told me it was . It is the divinest thing in us . Do n't sneer at it , Harry , any more – at least not before me . I want to be good . I ca n ' t bear the idea of my soul being hideous . "" "" A very charming artistic basis for ethics , Dorian ! I congratulate you on it . But how are you going to begin ? "" "" By marrying Sibyl Vane . "" "" Marrying Sibyl Vane ! "" cried Lord Henry , standing up and looking at him in perplexed amazement . "" But , my dear Dorian – "" "" Yes , Harry , I know what you are going to say . Something dreadful about marriage . Do n't say it . Do n't ever say things of that kind to me again . Two days ago I asked Sibyl to marry me . I am not going to break my word to her . She is to be my wife . "" "" Your wife ! Dorian ! ... Did n't you get my letter ? I wrote to you this morning , and sent the note down by my own man . "" "" Your letter ? Oh , yes , I remember . I have not read it yet , Harry . I was afraid there might be something in it that I would n ' t like . You cut life to pieces with your epigrams . "" "" You know nothing then ? "" "" What do you mean ? "" Lord Henry walked across the room , and sitting down by Dorian Gray , took both his hands in his own and held them tightly . "" Dorian , "" he said , "" my letter – do n't be frightened – was to tell you that Sibyl Vane is dead . "" A cry of pain broke from the lad's lips , and he leaped to his feet , tearing his hands away from Lord Henry's grasp . "" Dead ! Sibyl dead ! It is not true ! It is a horrible lie ! How dare you say it ? "" "" It is quite true , Dorian , "" said Lord Henry , gravely . "" It is in all the morning papers . I wrote down to you to ask you not to see any one till I came . There will have to be an inquest , of course , and you must not be mixed up in it . Things like that make a man fashionable in Paris . But in London people are so prejudiced . Here , one should never make one's début with a scandal . One should reserve that to give an interest to one's old age . I suppose they do n't know your name at the theatre ? If they do n't , it is all right . Did any one see you going round to her room ? That is an important point . "" Dorian did not answer for a few moments . He was dazed with horror . Finally he stammered , in a stifled voice , "" Harry , did you say an inquest ? What did you mean by that ? Did Sibyl – ? Oh , Harry , I ca n ' t bear it ! But be quick . Tell me everything at once . "" "" I have no doubt it was not an accident , Dorian , though it must be put in that way to the public . It seems that as she was leaving the theatre with her mother , about half-past twelve or so , she said she had forgotten something upstairs . They waited some time for her , but she did not come down again . They ultimately found her lying dead on the floor of her dressing-room . She had swallowed something by mistake , some dreadful thing they use at theatres . I do n't know what it was , but it had either prussic acid or white lead in it . I should fancy it was prussic acid , as she seems to have died instantaneously . "" "" Harry , Harry , it is terrible ! "" cried the lad . "" Yes ; it is very tragic , of course , but you must not get yourself mixed up in it . I see by the Standard that she was seventeen . I should have thought she was almost younger than that . She looked such a child , and seemed to know so little about acting . Dorian , you must n ' t let this thing get on your nerves . You must come and dine with me , and afterwards we will look in at the opera . It is a Patti night , and everybody will be there . You can come to my sister's box . She has got some smart women with her . "" "" So I have murdered Sibyl Vane , "" said Dorian Gray , half to himself , "" murdered her as surely as if I had cut her little throat with a knife . Yet the roses are not less lovely for all that . The birds sing just as happily in my garden . And to-night I am to dine with you , and then go on to the opera , and sup somewhere , I suppose , afterwards . How extraordinarily dramatic life is ! If I had read all this in a book , Harry , I think I would have wept over it . Somehow , now that it has happened actually , and to me , it seems far too wonderful for tears . Here is the first passionate love-letter I have ever written in my life . Strange , that my first passionate love-letter should have been addressed to a dead girl . Can they feel , I wonder , those white silent people we call the dead ? Sibyl ! Can she feel , or know , or listen ? Oh , Harry , how I loved her once ! It seems years ago to me now . She was everything to me . Then came that dreadful night – was it really only last night ? – when she played so badly , and my heart almost broke . She explained it all to me . It was terribly pathetic . But I was not moved a bit . I thought her shallow . Suddenly something happened that made me afraid . I ca n ' t tell you what it was , but it was terrible . I said I would go back to her . I felt I had done wrong . And now she is dead . My God ! My God ! Harry , what shall I do ? You do n't know the danger I am in , and there is nothing to keep me straight . She would have done that for me . She had no right to kill herself . It was selfish of her . "" "" My dear Dorian , "" answered Lord Henry , taking a cigarette from his case and producing a gold-latten matchbox , "" the only way a woman can ever reform a man is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible interest in life . If you had married this girl , you would have been wretched . Of course , you would have treated her kindly . One can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing . But she would have soon found out that you were absolutely indifferent to her . And when a woman finds that out about her husband , she either becomes dreadfully dowdy , or wears very smart bonnets that some other woman's husband has to pay for . I say nothing about the social mistake , which would have been abject – which , of course , I would not have allowed – but I assure you that in any case the whole thing would have been an absolute failure . "" "" I suppose it would , "" muttered the lad , walking up and down the room and looking horribly pale . "" But I thought it was my duty . It is not my fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right . I remember your saying once that there is a fatality about good resolutions – that they are always made too late . Mine certainly were . "" "" Good resolutions are useless attempts to interfere with scientific laws . Their origin is pure vanity . Their result is absolutely nil . They give us , now and then , some of those luxurious sterile emotions that have a certain charm for the weak . That is all that can be said for them . They are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they have no account . "" "" Harry , "" cried Dorian Gray , coming over and sitting down beside him , "" why is it that I can not feel this tragedy as much as I want to ? I do n't think I am heartless . Do you ? "" "" You have done too many foolish things during the last fortnight to be entitled to give yourself that name , Dorian , "" answered Lord Henry with his sweet melancholy smile . The lad frowned . "" I do n't like that explanation , Harry , "" he rejoined , "" but I am glad you do n't think I am heartless . I am nothing of the kind . I know I am not . And yet I must admit that this thing that has happened does not affect me as it should . It seems to me to be simply like a wonderful ending to a wonderful play . It has all the terrible beauty of a Greek tragedy , a tragedy in which I took a great part , but by which I have not been wounded . "" "" It is an interesting question , "" said Lord Henry , who found an exquisite pleasure in playing on the lad's unconscious egotism – "" an extremely interesting question . I fancy that the true explanation is this : It often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in such an inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude violence , their absolute incoherence , their absurd want of meaning , their entire lack of style . They affect us just as vulgarity affects us . They give us an impression of sheer brute force , and we revolt against that . Sometimes , however , a tragedy that possesses artistic elements of beauty crosses our lives . If these elements of beauty are real , the whole thing simply appeals to our sense of dramatic effect . Suddenly we find that we are no longer the actors , but the spectators of the play . Or rather we are both . We watch ourselves , and the mere wonder of the spectacle enthralls us . In the present case , what is it that has really happened ? Some one has killed herself for love of you . I wish that I had ever had such an experience . It would have made me in love with love for the rest of my life . The people who have adored me – there have not been very many , but there have been some – have always insisted on living on , long after I had ceased to care for them , or they to care for me . They have become stout and tedious , and when I meet them , they go in at once for reminiscences . That awful memory of woman ! What a fearful thing it is ! And what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals ! One should absorb the colour of life , but one should never remember its details . Details are always vulgar . "" "" I must sow poppies in my garden , "" sighed Dorian . "" There is no necessity , "" rejoined his companion . "" Life has always poppies in her hands . Of course , now and then things linger . I once wore nothing but violets all through one season , as a form of artistic mourning for a romance that would not die . Ultimately , however , it did die . I forget what killed it . I think it was her proposing to sacrifice the whole world for me . That is always a dreadful moment . It fills one with the terror of eternity . Well – would you believe it ? – a week ago , at Lady Hampshire's , I found myself seated at dinner next the lady in question , and she insisted on going over the whole thing again , and digging up the past , and raking up the future . I had buried my romance in a bed of asphodel . She dragged it out again and assured me that I had spoiled her life . I am bound to state that she ate an enormous dinner , so I did not feel any anxiety . But what a lack of taste she showed ! The one charm of the past is that it is the past . But women never know when the curtain has fallen . They always want a sixth act , and as soon as the interest of the play is entirely over , they propose to continue it . If they were allowed their own way , every comedy would have a tragic ending , and every tragedy would culminate in a farce . They are charmingly artificial , but they have no sense of art . You are more fortunate than I am . I assure you , Dorian , that not one of the women I have known would have done for me what Sibyl Vane did for you . Ordinary women always console themselves . Some of them do it by going in for sentimental colours . Never trust a woman who wears mauve , whatever her age may be , or a woman over thirty-five who is fond of pink ribbons . It always means that they have a history . Others find a great consolation in suddenly discovering the good qualities of their husbands . They flaunt their conjugal felicity in one's face , as if it were the most fascinating of sins . Religion consoles some . Its mysteries have all the charm of a flirtation , a woman once told me , and I can quite understand it . Besides , nothing makes one so vain as being told that one is a sinner . Conscience makes egotists of us all . Yes ; there is really no end to the consolations that women find in modern life . Indeed , I have not mentioned the most important one . "" "" What is that , Harry ? "" said the lad listlessly . "" Oh , the obvious consolation . Taking some one else's admirer when one loses one 's own . In good society that always whitewashes a woman . But really , Dorian , how different Sibyl Vane must have been from all the women one meets ! There is something to me quite beautiful about her death . I am glad I am living in a century when such wonders happen . They make one believe in the reality of the things we all play with , such as romance , passion , and love . "" "" I was terribly cruel to her . You forget that . "" "" I am afraid that women appreciate cruelty , downright cruelty , more than anything else . They have wonderfully primitive instincts . We have emancipated them , but they remain slaves looking for their masters , all the same . They love being dominated . I am sure you were splendid . I have never seen you really and absolutely angry , but I can fancy how delightful you looked . And , after all , you said something to me the day before yesterday that seemed to me at the time to be merely fanciful , but that I see now was absolutely true , and it holds the key to everything . "" "" What was that , Harry ? "" "" You said to me that Sibyl Vane represented to you all the heroines of romance – that she was Desdemona one night , and Ophelia the other ; that if she died as Juliet , she came to life as Imogen . "" "" She will never come to life again now , "" muttered the lad , burying his face in his hands . "" No , she will never come to life . She has played her last part . But you must think of that lonely death in the tawdry dressing-room simply as a strange lurid fragment from some Jacobean tragedy , as a wonderful scene from Webster , or Ford , or Cyril Tourneur . The girl never really lived , and so she has never really died . To you at least she was always a dream , a phantom that flitted through Shakespeare's plays and left them lovelier for its presence , a reed through which Shakespeare's music sounded richer and more full of joy . The moment she touched actual life , she marred it , and it marred her , and so she passed away . Mourn for Ophelia , if you like . Put ashes on your head because Cordelia was strangled . Cry out against Heaven because the daughter of Brabantio died . But do n't waste your tears over Sibyl Vane . She was less real than they are . "" There was a silence . The evening darkened in the room . Noiselessly , and with silver feet , the shadows crept in from the garden . The colours faded wearily out of things . After some time Dorian Gray looked up . "" You have explained me to myself , Harry , "" he murmured with something of a sigh of relief . "" I felt all that you have said , but somehow I was afraid of it , and I could not express it to myself . How well you know me ! But we will not talk again of what has happened . It has been a marvellous experience . That is all . I wonder if life has still in store for me anything as marvellous . "" "" Life has everything in store for you , Dorian . There is nothing that you , with your extraordinary good looks , will not be able to do . "" "" But suppose , Harry , I became haggard , and old , and wrinkled ? What then ? "" "" Ah , then , "" said Lord Henry , rising to go – "" then , my dear Dorian , you would have to fight for your victories . As it is , they are brought to you . No , you must keep your good looks . We live in an age that reads too much to be wise , and that thinks too much to be beautiful . We can not spare you . And now you had better dress and drive down to the club . We are rather late , as it is . "" "" I think I shall join you at the opera , Harry . I feel too tired to eat anything . What is the number of your sister's box ? "" "" Twenty-seven , I believe . It is on the grand tier . You will see her name on the door . But I am sorry you wo n ' t come and dine . "" "" I do n't feel up to it , "" said Dorian listlessly . "" But I am awfully obliged to you for all that you have said to me . You are certainly my best friend . No one has ever understood me as you have . "" "" We are only at the beginning of our friendship , Dorian , "" answered Lord Henry , shaking him by the hand . "" Good-bye . I shall see you before nine-thirty , I hope . Remember , Patti is singing . "" As he closed the door behind him , Dorian Gray touched the bell , and in a few minutes Victor appeared with the lamps and drew the blinds down . He waited impatiently for him to go . The man seemed to take an interminable time over everything . As soon as he had left , he rushed to the screen and drew it back . No ; there was no further change in the picture . It had received the news of Sibyl Vane's death before he had known of it himself . It was conscious of the events of life as they occurred . The vicious cruelty that marred the fine lines of the mouth had , no doubt , appeared at the very moment that the girl had drunk the poison , whatever it was . Or was it indifferent to results ? Did it merely take cognizance of what passed within the soul ? He wondered , and hoped that some day he would see the change taking place before his very eyes , shuddering as he hoped it . Poor Sibyl ! What a romance it had all been ! She had often mimicked death on the stage . Then Death himself had touched her and taken her with him . How had she played that dreadful last scene ? Had she cursed him , as she died ? No ; she had died for love of him , and love would always be a sacrament to him now . She had atoned for everything by the sacrifice she had made of her life . He would not think any more of what she had made him go through , on that horrible night at the theatre . When he thought of her , it would be as a wonderful tragic figure sent on to the world's stage to show the supreme reality of love . A wonderful tragic figure ? Tears came to his eyes as he remembered her childlike look , and winsome fanciful ways , and shy tremulous grace . He brushed them away hastily and looked again at the picture . He felt that the time had really come for making his choice . Or had his choice already been made ? Yes , life had decided that for him – life , and his own infinite curiosity about life . Eternal youth , infinite passion , pleasures subtle and secret , wild joys and wilder sins – he was to have all these things . The portrait was to bear the burden of his shame : that was all . A feeling of pain crept over him as he thought of the desecration that was in store for the fair face on the canvas . Once , in boyish mockery of Narcissus , he had kissed , or feigned to kiss , those painted lips that now smiled so cruelly at him . Morning after morning he had sat before the portrait wondering at its beauty , almost enamoured of it , as it seemed to him at times . Was it to alter now with every mood to which he yielded ? Was it to become a monstrous and loathsome thing , to be hidden away in a locked room , to be shut out from the sunlight that had so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair ? The pity of it ! the pity of it ! For a moment , he thought of praying that the horrible sympathy that existed between him and the picture might cease . It had changed in answer to a prayer ; perhaps in answer to a prayer it might remain unchanged . And yet , who , that knew anything about life , would surrender the chance of remaining always young , however fantastic that chance might be , or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught ? Besides , was it really under his control ? Had it indeed been prayer that had produced the substitution ? Might there not be some curious scientific reason for it all ? If thought could exercise its influence upon a living organism , might not thought exercise an influence upon dead and inorganic things ? Nay , without thought or conscious desire , might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods and passions , atom calling to atom in secret love or strange affinity ? But the reason was of no importance . He would never again tempt by a prayer any terrible power . If the picture was to alter , it was to alter . That was all . Why inquire too closely into it ? For there would be a real pleasure in watching it . He would be able to follow his mind into its secret places . This portrait would be to him the most magical of mirrors . As it had revealed to him his own body , so it would reveal to him his own soul . And when winter came upon it , he would still be standing where spring trembles on the verge of summer . When the blood crept from its face , and left behind a pallid mask of chalk with leaden eyes , he would keep the glamour of boyhood . Not one blossom of his loveliness would ever fade . Not one pulse of his life would ever weaken . Like the gods of the Greeks , he would be strong , and fleet , and joyous . What did it matter what happened to the coloured image on the canvas ? He would be safe . That was everything . He drew the screen back into its former place in front of the picture , smiling as he did so , and passed into his bedroom , where his valet was already waiting for him . An hour later he was at the opera , and Lord Henry was leaning over his chair ."	Prose/Lyrical
59	"CHAPTER II AT SICCA Two days afterwards the Mercenaries left Carthage . They had each received a piece of gold on the condition that they should go into camp at Sicca , and they had been told with all sorts of caresses : "" You are the saviours of Carthage ! But you would starve it if you remained there ; it would become insolvent . Withdraw ! The Republic will be grateful to you later for all this condescension . We are going to levy taxes immediately ; your pay shall be in full , and galleys shall be equipped to take you back to your native lands . "" They did not know how to reply to all this talk . These men , accustomed as they were to war , were wearied by residence in a town ; there was difficulty in convincing them , and the people mounted the walls to see them go away . They defiled through the street of Khamon , and the Cirta gate , pell-mell , archers with hoplites , captains with soldiers , Lusitanians with Greeks . They marched with a bold step , rattling their heavy cothurni on the paving stones . Their armour was dented by the catapult , and their faces blackened by the sunburn of battles . Hoarse cries issued from their thick bears , their tattered coats of mail flapped upon the pommels of their swords , and through the holes in the brass might be seen their naked limbs , as frightful as engines of war . Sarissae , axes , spears , felt caps and bronze helmets , all swung together with a single motion . They filled the street thickly enough to have made the walls crack , and the long mass of armed soldiers overflowed between the lofty bitumen-smeared houses six storys high . Behind their gratings of iron or reed the women , with veiled heads , silently watched the Barbarians pass . The terraces , fortifications , and walls were hidden beneath the crowd of Carthaginians , who were dressed in garments of black . The sailors' tunics showed like drops of blood among the dark multitude , and nearly naked children , whose skin shone beneath their copper bracelets , gesticulated in the foliage of the columns , or amid the branches of a palm tree . Some of the Ancients were posted on the platform of the towers , and people did not know why a personage with a long beard stood thus in a dreamy attitude here and there . He appeared in the distance against the background of the sky , vague as a phantom and motionless as stone . All , however , were oppressed with the same anxiety ; it was feared that the Barbarians , seeing themselves so strong , might take a fancy to stay . But they were leaving with so much good faith that the Carthaginians grew bold and mingled with the soldiers . They overwhelmed them with protestations and embraces . Some with exaggerated politeness and audacious hypocrisy even sought to induce them not to leave the city . They threw perfumes , flowers , and pieces of silver to them . They gave them amulets to avert sickness ; but they had spit upon them three times to attract death , or had enclosed jackal's hair within them to put cowardice into their hearts . Aloud , they invoked Melkarth's favour , and in a whisper , his curse . Then came the mob of baggage , beasts of burden , and stragglers . The sick groaned on the backs of dromedaries , while others limped along leaning on broken pikes . The drunkards carried leathern bottles , and the greedy quarters of meat , cakes , fruits , butter wrapped in fig leaves , and snow in linen bags . Some were to be seen with parasols in their hands , and parrots on their shoulders . They had mastiffs , gazelles , and panthers following behind them . Women of Libyan race , mounted on asses , inveighed against the Negresses who had forsaken the lupanaria of Malqua for the soldiers ; many of them were suckling children suspended on their bosoms by leathern thongs . The mules were goaded out at the point of the sword , their backs bending beneath the load of tents , while there were numbers of serving-men and water-carriers , emaciated , jaundiced with fever , and filthy with vermin , the scum of the Carthaginian populace , who had attached themselves to the Barbarians . When they had passed , the gates were shut behind them , but the people did not descend from the walls . The army soon spread over the breadth of the isthmus . It parted into unequal masses . Then the lances appeared like tall blades of grass , and finally all was lost in a train of dust ; those of the soldiers who looked back towards Carthage could now only see its long walls with their vacant battlements cut out against the edge of the sky . Then the Barbarians heard a great shout . They thought that some from among them ( for they did not know their own number ) had remained in the town , and were amusing themselves by pillaging a temple . They laughed a great deal at the idea of this , and then continued their journey . They were rejoiced to find themselves , as in former days , marching all together in the open country , and some of the Greeks sang the old song of the Mamertines : "" With my lance and sword I plough and reap ; I am master of the house ! The disarmed man falls at my feet and calls me Lord and Great King . "" They shouted , they leaped , the merriest began to tell stories ; the time of their miseries was past . As they arrived at Tunis , some of them remarked that a troop of Balearic slingers was missing . They were doubtless not far off ; and no further heed was paid to them . Some went to lodge in the houses , others camped at the foot of the walls , and the townspeople came out to chat with the soldiers . During the whole night fires were seen burning on the horizon in the direction of Carthage ; the light stretched like giant torches across the motionless lake . No one in the army could tell what festival was being celebrated . On the following day the Barbarian 's passed through a region that was covered with cultivation . The domains of the patricians succeeded one another along the border of the route ; channels of water flowed through woods of palm ; there were long , green lines of olive-trees ; rose-coloured vapours floated in the gorges of the hills , while blue mountains reared themselves behind . A warm wind was blowing . Chameleons were crawling on the broad leaves of the cactus . The Barbarians slackened their speed . They marched on in isolated detachments , or lagged behind one another at long intervals . They ate grapes along the margin of the vines . They lay on the grass and gazed with stupefaction upon the large , artificially twisted horns of the oxen , the sheep clothed with skins to protect their wool , the furrows crossing one another so as to form lozenges , and the ploughshares like ships' anchors , with the pomegranate trees that were watered with silphium . Such wealth of the soil and such inventions of wisdom dazzled them . In the evening they stretched themselves on the tents without unfolding them ; and thought with regret of Hamilcar's feast , as they fell asleep with their faces towards the stars . In the middle of the following day they halted on the bank of a river , amid clumps of rose-bays . Then they quickly threw aside lances , bucklers and belts . They bathed with shouts , and drew water in their helmets , while others drank lying flat on their stomachs , and all in the midst of the beasts of burden whose baggage was slipping from them . Spendius , who was seated on a dromedary stolen in Hamilcar's parks , perceived Matho at a distance , with his arm hanging against his breast , his head bare , and his face bent down , giving his mule drink , and watching the water flow . Spendius immediately ran through the crowd calling him , "" Master ! master ! "" Matho gave him but scant thanks for his blessings , but Spendius paid no heed to this , and began to march behind him , from time to time turning restless glances in the direction of Carthage . He was the son of a Greek rhetor and a Campanian prostitute . He had at first grown rich by dealing in women ; then , ruined by a shipwreck , he had made war against the Romans with the herdsmen of Samnium . He had been taken and had escaped ; he had been retaken , and had worked in the quarries , panted in the vapour-baths , shrieked under torture , passed through the hands of many masters , and experienced every frenzy . At last , one day , in despair , he had flung himself into the sea from the top of a trireme where he was working at the oar . Some of Hamilcar's sailors had picked him up when at the point of death , and had brought him to the ergastulum of Megara , at Carthage . But , as fugitives were to be given back to the Romans , he had taken advantage of the confusion to fly with the soldiers . During the whole of the march he remained near Matho ; he brought him food , assisted him to dismount , and spread a carpet in the evening beneath his head . Matho at last was touched by these attentions , and by degrees unlocked his lips . He had been born in the gulf of Syrtis . His father had taken him on a pilgrimage to the temple of Ammon . Then he had hunted elephants in the forests of the Garamantes . Afterwards he had entered the service of Carthage . He had been appointed tetrarch at the capture of Drepanum . The Republic owed him four horses , twenty-three medimni of wheat , and a winter's pay . He feared the gods , and wished to die in his native land . Spendius spoke to him of his travels , and of the peoples and temples that he had visited . He knew many things : he could make sandals , boar-spears and nets ; he could tame wild beasts and could cook fish . Sometimes he would interrupt himself , and utter a hoarse cry from the depths of his throat ; Matho's mule would quicken his pace , and others would hasten after them , and then Spendius would begin again though still torn with agony . This subsided at last on the evening of the fourth day . They were marching side by side to the right of the army on the side of a hill ; below them stretched the plain lost in the vapours of the night . The lines of soldiers also were defiling below , making undulations in the shade . From time to time these passed over eminences lit up by the moon ; then stars would tremble on the points of the pikes , the helmets would glimmer for an instant , all would disappear , and others would come on continually . Startled flocks bleated in the distance , and a something of infinite sweetness seemed to sink upon the earth . Spendius , with his head thrown back and his eyes half-closed , inhaled the freshness of the wind with great sighs ; he spread out his arms , moving his fingers that he might the better feel the cares that streamed over his body . Hopes of vengeance came back to him and transported him . He pressed his hand upon his mouth to check his sobs , and half-swooning with intoxication , let go the halter of his dromedary , which was proceeding with long , regular steps . Matho had relapsed into his former melancholy ; his legs hung down to the ground , and the grass made a continuous rustling as it beat against his cothurni . The journey , however , spread itself out without ever coming to an end . At the extremity of a plain they would always reach a round-shaped plateau ; then they would descend again into a valley , and the mountains which seemed to block up the horizon would , in proportion as they were approached , glide as it were from their positions . From time to time a river would appear amid the verdure of tamarisks to lose itself at the turning of the hills . Sometimes a huge rock would tower aloft like the prow of a vessel or the pedestal of some vanished colossus . At regular intervals they met with little quadrangular temples , which served as stations for the pilgrims who repaired to Sicca . They were closed like tombs . The Libyans struck great blows upon the doors to have them opened . But no one inside responded . Then the cultivation became more rare . They suddenly entered upon belts of sand bristling with thorny thickets . Flocks of sheep were browsing among the stones ; a woman with a blue fleece about her waist was watching them . She fled screaming when she saw the soldiers' pikes among the rocks . They were marching through a kind of large passage bordered by two chains of reddish coloured hillocks , when their nostrils were greeted with a nauseous odour , and they thought that they could see something extraordinary on the top of a carob tree : a lion's head reared itself above the leaves . They ran thither . It was a lion with his four limbs fastened to a cross like a criminal . His huge muzzle fell upon his breast , and his two fore-paws , half-hidden beneath the abundance of his mane , were spread out wide like the wings of a bird . His ribs stood severally out beneath his distended skin ; his hind legs , which were nailed against each other , were raised somewhat , and the black blood , flowing through his hair , had collected in stalactites at the end of his tail , which hung down perfectly straight along the cross . The soldiers made merry around ; they called him consul , and Roman citizen , and threw pebbles into his eyes to drive away the gnats . But a hundred paces further on they saw two more , and then there suddenly appeared a long file of crosses bearing lions . Some had been so long dead that nothing was left against the wood but the remains of their skeletons ; others which were half eaten away had their jaws twisted into horrible grimaces ; there were some enormous ones ; the shafts of the crosses bent beneath them , and they swayed in the wind , while bands of crows wheeled ceaselessly in the air above their heads . It was thus that the Carthaginian peasants avenged themselves when they captured a wild beast ; they hoped to terrify the others by such an example . The Barbarians ceased their laughter , and were long lost in amazement . "" What people is this , "" they thought , "" that amuses itself by crucifying lions ! "" They were , besides , especially the men of the North , vaguely uneasy , troubled , and already sick . They tore their hands with the darts of the aloes ; great mosquitoes buzzed in their ears , and dysentry was breaking out in the army . They were weary at not yet seeing Sicca . They were afraid of losing themselves and of reaching the desert , the country of sands and terrors . Many even were unwilling to advance further . Others started back to Carthage . At last on the seventh day , after following the base of a mountain for a long time , they turned abruptly to the right , and there then appeared a line of walls resting on white rocks and blending with them . Suddenly the entire city rose ; blue , yellow , and white veils moved on the walls in the redness of the evening . These were the priestesses of Tanith , who had hastened hither to receive the men . They stood ranged along the rampart , striking tabourines , playing lyres , and shaking crotala , while the rays of the sun , setting behind them in the mountains of Numidia , shot between the strings of their lyres over which their naked arms were stretched . At intervals their instruments would become suddenly still , and a cry would break forth strident , precipitate , frenzied , continuous , a sort of barking which they made by striking both corners of the mouth with the tongue . Others , more motionless than the Sphynx , rested on their elbows with their chins on their hands , and darted their great black eyes upon the army as it ascended . Although Sicca was a sacred town it could not hold such a multitude ; the temple alone , with its appurtenances , occupied half of it . Accordingly the Barbarians established themselves at their ease on the plain ; those who were disciplined in regular troops , and the rest according to nationality or their own fancy . The Greeks ranged their tents of skin in parallel lines ; the Iberians placed their canvas pavilions in a circle ; the Gauls made themselves huts of planks ; the Libyans cabins of dry stones , while the Negroes with their nails hollowed out trenches in the sand to sleep in . Many , not knowing where to go , wandered about among the baggage , and at nightfall lay down in their ragged mantles on the ground . The plain , which was wholly bounded by mountains , expanded around them . Here and there a palm tree leaned over a sand hill , and pines and oaks flecked the sides of the precipices : sometimes the rain of a storm would hang from the sky like a long scarf , while the country everywhere was still covered with azure and serenity ; then a warm wind would drive before it tornadoes of dust , and a stream would descend in cascades from the heights of Sicca , where , with its roofing of gold on its columns of brass , rose the temple of the Carthaginian Venus , the mistress of the land . She seemed to fill it with her soul . In such convulsions of the soil , such alternations of temperature , and such plays of light would she manifest the extravagance of her might with the beauty of her eternal smile . The mountains at their summits were crescent-shaped ; others were like women's bosoms presenting their swelling breasts , and the Barbarians felt a heaviness that was full of delight weighing down their fatigues . Spendius had bought a slave with the money brought him by his dromedary . The whole day long he lay asleep stretched before Matho's tent . Often he would awake , thinking in his dreams that he heard the whistling of the thongs ; with a smile he would pass his hands over the scars on his legs at the place where the fetters had long been worn , and then he would fall asleep again . Matho accepted his companionship , and when he went out Spendius would escort him like a lictor with a long sword on his thigh ; or perhaps Matho would rest his arm carelessly on the other 's shoulder , for Spendius was small . One evening when they were passing together through the streets in the camp they perceived some men covered with white cloaks ; among them was Narr ' Havas , the prince of the Numidians . Matho started . "" Your sword ! "" he cried ; "" I will kill him ! "" "" Not yet ! "" said Spendius , restraining him . Narr ' Havas was already advancing towards him . He kissed both thumbs in token of alliance , showing nothing of the anger which he had experienced at the drunkenness of the feast ; then he spoke at length against Carthage , but did not say what brought him among the Barbarians . "" Was it to betray them , or else the Republic ? "" Spendius asked himself ; and as he expected to profit by every disorder , he felt grateful to Narr ' Havas for the future perfidies of which he suspected him . The chief of the Numidians remained amongst the Mercenaries . He appeared desirous of attaching Matho to himself . He sent him fat goats , gold dust , and ostrich feathers . The Libyan , who was amazed at such caresses , was in doubt whether to respond to them or to become exasperated at them . But Spendius pacified him , and Matho allowed himself to be ruled by the slave , remaining ever irresolute and in an unconquerable torpor , like those who have once taken a draught of which they are to die . One morning when all three went out lion-hunting , Narr ' Havas concealed a dagger in his cloak . Spendius kept continually behind him , and when they returned the dagger had not been drawn . Another time Narr ' Havas took them a long way off , as far as the boundaries of his kingdom . They came to a narrow gorge , and Narr ' Havas smiled as he declared that he had forgotten the way . Spendius found it again . But most frequently Matho would go off at sunrise , as melancholy as an augur , to wander about the country . He would stretch himself on the sand , and remain there motionless until the evening . He consulted all the soothsayers in the army one after the other , -- those who watch the trail of serpents , those who read the stars , and those who breathe upon the ashes of the dead . He swallowed galbanum , seseli , and viper's venom which freezes the heart ; Negro women , singing barbarous words in the moonlight , pricked the skin of his forehead with golden stylets ; he loaded himself with necklaces and charms ; he invoked in turn Baal-Khamon , Moloch , the seven Kabiri , Tanith , and the Venus of the Greeks . He engraved a name upon a copper plate , and buried it in the sand at the threshold of his tent . Spendius used to hear him groaning and talking to himself . One night he went in . Matho , as naked as a corpse , was lying on a lion's skin flat on his stomach , with his face in both his hands ; a hanging lamp lit up his armour , which was hooked on to the tent-pole above his head . "" You are suffering ? "" said the slave to him . "" What is the matter with you ? Answer me ? "" And he shook him by the shoulder calling him several times , "" Master ! master ! "" At last Matho lifted large troubled eyes towards him . "" Listen ! "" he said in a low voice , and with a finger on his lips . "" It is the wrath of the Gods ! Hamilcar's daughter pursues me ! I am afraid of her , Spendius ! "" He pressed himself close against his breast like a child terrified by a phantom . "" Speak to me ! I am sick ! I want to get well ! I have tried everything ! But you , you perhaps know some stronger gods , or some resistless invocation ? "" "" For what purpose ? "" asked Spendius . Striking his head with both his fists , he replied : "" To rid me of her ! "" Then speaking to himself with long pauses he said : "" I am no doubt the victim of some holocaust which she has promised to the gods ? -- She holds me fast by a chain which people can not see . If I walk , it is she that is advancing ; when I stop , she is resting ! Her eyes burn me , I hear her voice . She encompasses me , she penetrates me . It seems to me that she has become my soul ! "" And yet between us there are , as it were , the invisible billows of a boundless ocean ! She is far away and quite inaccessible ! The splendour of her beauty forms a cloud of light around her , and at times I think that I have never seen her--that she does not exist--and that it is all a dream ! "" Matho wept thus in the darkness ; the Barbarians were sleeping . Spendius , as he looked at him , recalled the young men who once used to entreat him with golden cases in their hands , when he led his herd of courtesans through the towns ; a feeling of pity moved him , and he said -- "" Be strong , my master ! Summon your will , and beseech the gods no more , for they turn not aside at the cries of men ! Weeping like a coward ! And you are not humiliated that a woman can cause you so much suffering ? "" "" Am I a child ? "" said Matho . "" Do you think that I am moved by their faces and songs ? We kept them at Drepanum to sweep out our stables . I have embraced them amid assaults , beneath falling ceilings , and while the catapult was still vibrating ! -- But she , Spendius , she ! -- "" The slave interrupted him : "" If she were not Hanno's daughter -- "" "" No ! "" cried Matho . "" She has nothing in common with the daughters of other men ! Have you seen her great eyes beneath her great eyebrows , like suns beneath triumphal arches ? Think : when she appeared all the torches grew pale . Her naked breast shone here and there through the diamonds of her necklace ; behind her you perceived as it were the odour of a temple , and her whole being emitted something that was sweeter than wine and more terrible than death . She walked , however , and then she stopped . "" He remained gaping with his head cast down and his eyeballs fixed . "" But I want her ! I need her ! I am dying for her ! I am transported with frenzied joy at the thought of clasping her in my arms , and yet I hate her , Spendius ! I should like to beat her ! What is to be done ? I have a mind to sell myself and become her slave ! YOU have been that ! You were able to get sight of her ; speak to me of her ! Every night she ascends to the terrace of her palace , does she not ? Ah ! the stones must quiver beneath her sandals , and the stars bend down to see her ! "" He fell back in a perfect frenzy , with a rattling in his throat like a wounded bull . Then Matho sang : "" He pursued into the forest the female monster , whose tail undulated over the dead leaves like a silver brook . "" And with lingering tones he imitated Salammbo's voice , while his outspread hands were held like two light hands on the strings of a lyre . To all the consolations offered by Spendius , he repeated the same words ; their nights were spent in these wailings and exhortations . Matho sought to drown his thoughts in wine . After his fits of drunkenness he was more melancholy still . He tried to divert himself at huckle-bones , and lost the gold plates of his necklace one by one . He had himself taken to the servants of the Goddess ; but he came down the hill sobbing , like one returning from a funeral . Spendius , on the contrary , became more bold and gay . He was to be seen in the leafy taverns discoursing in the midst of the soldiers . He mended old cuirasses . He juggled with daggers . He went and gathered herbs in the fields for the sick . He was facetious , dexterous , full of invention and talk ; the Barbarians grew accustomed to his services , and he came to be loved by them . However , they were awaiting an ambassador from Carthage to bring them mules laden with baskets of gold ; and ever beginning the same calculation over again , they would trace figures with their fingers in the sand . Every one was arranging his life beforehand ; they would have concubines , slaves , lands ; others intended to bury their treasure , or risk it on a vessel . But their tempers were provoked by want of employment ; there were constant disputes between horse-soldiers and foot-soldiers , Barbarians and Greeks , while there was a never-ending din of shrill female voices . Every day men came flocking in nearly naked , and with grass on their heads to protect them from the sun ; they were the debtors of the rich Carthaginians and had been forced to till the lands of the latter , but had escaped . Libyans came pouring in with peasants ruined by the taxes , outlaws , and malefactors . Then the horde of traders , all the dealers in wine and oil , who were furious at not being paid , laid the blame upon the Republic . Spendius declaimed against it . Soon the provisions ran low ; and there was talk of advancing in a body upon Carthage , and calling in the Romans . One evening , at supper-time , dull cracked sounds were heard approaching , and something red appeared in the distance among the undulations of the soil . It was a large purple litter , adorned with ostrich feathers at the corners . Chains of crystal and garlands of pearls beat against the closed hangings . It was followed by camels sounding the great bells that hung at their breasts , and having around them horsemen clad from shoulder to heel in armour of golden scales . They halted three hundred paces from the camp to take their round bucklers , broad swords , and Boeotian helmets out of the cases which they carried behind their saddles . Some remained with the camels , while the others resumed their march . At last the ensigns of the Republic appeared , that is to say , staves of blue wood terminated in horses' heads or fir cones . The Barbarians all rose with applause ; the women rushed towards the guards of the Legion and kissed their feet . The litter advanced on the shoulders of twelve Negroes who walked in step with short , rapid strides ; they went at random to right or left , being embarrassed by the tent-ropes , the animals that were straying about , or the tripods where food was being cooked . Sometimes a fat hand , laden with rings , would partially open the litter , and a hoarse voice would utter loud reproaches ; then the bearers would stop and take a different direction through the camp . But the purple curtains were raised , and a human head , impassible and bloated , was seen resting on a large pillow ; the eyebrows , which were like arches of ebony , met each other at the points ; golden dust sparkled in the frizzled hair , and the face was so wan that it looked as if it had been powdered with marble raspings . The rest of the body was concealed beneath the fleeces which filled the litter . In the man so reclining the soldiers recognised the Suffet Hanno , he whose slackness had assisted to lose the battle of the Aegatian islands ; and as to his victory at Hecatompylos over the Libyans , even if he did behave with clemency , thought the Barbarians , it was owing to cupidity , for he had sold all the captives on his own account , although he had reported their deaths to the Republic . After seeking for some time a convenient place from which to harangue the soldiers , he made a sign ; the litter stopped , and Hanno , supported by two slaves , put his tottering feet to the ground . He wore boots of black felt strewn with silver moons . His legs were swathed in bands like those wrapped about a mummy , and the flesh crept through the crossings of the linen ; his stomach came out beyond the scarlet jacket which covered his thighs ; the folds of his neck fell down to his breast like the dewlaps of an ox ; his tunic , which was painted with flowers , was bursting at the arm-pits ; he wore a scarf , a girdle , and an ample black cloak with laced double-sleeves . But the abundance of his garments , his great necklace of blue stones , his golden clasps , and heavy earrings only rendered his deformity still more hideous . He might have been taken for some big idol rough-hewn in a block of stone ; for a pale leprosy , which was spread over his whole body , gave him the appearance of an inert thing . His nose , however , which was hooked like a vulture's beak , was violently dilated to breathe in the air , and his little eyes , with their gummed lashes , shone with a hard and metallic lustre . He held a spatula of aloe-wood in his hand wherewith to scratch his skin . At last two heralds sounded their silver horns ; the tumult subsided , and Hanno commenced to speak . He began with an eulogy of the gods and the Republic ; the Barbarians ought to congratulate themselves on having served it . But they must show themselves more reasonable ; times were hard , "" and if a master has only three olives , is it not right that he should keep two for himself ? "" The old Suffet mingled his speech in this way with proverbs and apologues , nodding his head the while to solicit some approval . He spoke in Punic , and those surrounding him ( the most alert , who had hastened thither without their arms ) , were Campanians , Gauls , and Greeks , so that no one in the crowd understood him . Hanno , perceiving this , stopped and reflected , swaying himself heavily from one leg to the other . It occurred to him to call the captains together ; then his heralds shouted the order in Greek , the language which , from the time of Xanthippus , had been used for commands in the Carthaginian armies . The guards dispersed the mob of soldiers with strokes of the whip ; and the captains of the Spartan phalanxes and the chiefs of the Barbarian cohorts soon arrived with the insignia of their rank , and in the armour of their nation . Night had fallen , a great tumult was spreading throughout the plain ; fires were burning here and there ; and the soldiers kept going from one to another asking what the matter was , and why the Suffet did not distribute the money ? He was setting the infinite burdens of the Republic before the captains . Her treasury was empty . The tribute to Rome was crushing her . "" We are quite at a loss what to do ! She is much to be pitied ! "" From time to time he would rub his limbs with his aloe-wood spatula , or perhaps he would break off to drink a ptisan made of the ashes of a weasel and asparagus boiled in vinegar from a silver cup handed to him by a slave ; then he would wipe his lips with a scarlet napkin and resume : "" What used to be worth a shekel of silver is now worth three shekels of gold , while the cultivated lands which were abandoned during the war bring in nothing ! Our purpura fisheries are nearly gone , and even pearls are becoming exhorbitant ; we have scarcely unguents enough for the service of the gods ! As for the things of the table , I shall say nothing about them ; it is a calamity ! For want of galleys we are without spices , and it is a matter of great difficulty to procure silphium on account of the rebellions on the Cyrenian frontier . Sicily , where so many slaves used to be had , is now closed to us ! Only yesterday I gave more money for a bather and four scullions than I used at one time to give for a pair of elephants ! "" He unrolled a long piece of papyrus ; and , without omitting a single figure , read all the expenses that the government had incurred ; so much for repairing the temples , for paving the streets , for the construction of vessels , for the coral-fisheries , for the enlargement of the Syssitia , and for engines in the mines in the country of the Cantabrians . But the captains understood Punic as little as the soldiers , although the Mercenaries saluted one another in that language . It was usual to place a few Carthaginian officers in the Barbarian armies to act as interpreters ; after the war they had concealed themselves through fear of vengeance , and Hanno had not thought of taking them with him ; his hollow voice , too , was lost in the wind . The Greeks , girthed in their iron waist-belts , strained their ears as they strove to guess at his words , while the mountaineers , covered with furs like bears , looked at him with distrust , or yawned as they leaned on their brass-nailed clubs . The heedless Gauls sneered as they shook their lofty heads of hair , and the men of the desert listened motionless , cowled in their garments of grey wool ; others kept coming up behind ; the guards , crushed by the mob , staggered on their horses ; the Negroes held out burning fir branches at arm's length ; and the big Carthaginian , mounted on a grassy hillock , continued his harangue . The Barbarians , however , were growing impatient ; murmuring arose , and every one apostrophized him . Hanno gesticulated with his spatula ; and those who wished the others to be quiet shouted still more loudly , thereby adding to the din . Suddenly a man of mean appearance bounded to Hanno's feet , snatched up a herald's trumpet , blew it , and Spendius ( for it was he ) announced that he was going to say something of importance . At this declaration , which was rapidly uttered in five different languages , Greek , Latin , Gallic , Libyan and Balearic , the captains , half laughing and half surprised , replied : "" Speak ! Speak ! "" Spendius hesitated ; he trembled ; at last , addressing the Libyans who were the most numerous , he said to them : "" You have all heard this man's horrible threats ! "" Hanno made no exclamation , therefore he did not understand Libyan ; and , to carry on the experiment , Spendius repeated the same phrase in the other Barbarian dialects . They looked at one another in astonishment ; then , as by a tacit agreement , and believing perhaps that they had understood , they bent their heads in token of assent . Then Spendius began in vehement tones : "" He said first that all the Gods of the other nations were but dreams besides the Gods of Carthage ! He called you cowards , thieves , liars , dogs , and the sons of dogs ! But for you ( he said that ! ) the Republic would not be forced to pay excessive tribute to the Romans ; and through your excesses you have drained it of perfumes , aromatics , slaves , and silphium , for you are in league with the nomads on the Cyrenian frontier ! But the guilty shall be punished ! He read the enumeration of their torments ; they shall be made to work at the paving of the streets , at the equipment of the vessels , at the adornment of the Syssitia , while the rest shall be sent to scrape the earth in the mines in the country of the Cantabrians . "" Spendius repeated the same statements to the Gauls , Greeks , Campanians and Balearians . The Mercenaries , recognising several of the proper names which had met their ears , were convinced that he was accurately reporting the Suffet's speech . A few cried out to him , "" You lie ! "" but their voices were drowned in the tumult of the rest ; Spendius added : "" Have you not seen that he has left a reserve of his horse-soldiers outside the camp ? At a given signal they will hasten hither to slay you all . "" The Barbarians turned in that direction , and as the crowd was then scattering , there appeared in the midst of them , and advancing with the slowness of a phantom , a human being , bent , lean , entirely naked , and covered down to his flanks with long hair bristling with dried leaves , dust and thorns . About his loins and his knees he had wisps of straw and linen rags ; his soft and earthy skin hung on his emaciated limbs like tatters on dried boughs ; his hands trembled with a continuous quivering , and as he walked he leaned on a staff of olive-wood . He reached the Negroes who were bearing the torches . His pale gums were displayed in a sort of idiotic titter ; his large , scared eyes gazed upon the crowd of Barbarians around him . But uttering a cry of terror he threw himself behind them , shielding himself with their bodies . "" There they are ! There they are ! "" he stammered out , pointing to the Suffet's guards , who were motionless in their glittering armour . Their horses , dazzled by the light of the torches which crackled in the darkness , were pawing the ground ; the human spectre struggled and howled : "" They have killed them ! "" At these words , which were screamed in Balearic , some Balearians came up and recognised him ; without answering them he repeated : "" Yes , all killed , all ! crushed like grapes ! The fine young men ! the slingers ! my companions and yours ! "" They gave him wine to drink , and he wept ; then he launched forth into speech . Spendius could scarcely repress his joy , as he explained the horrors related by Zarxas to the Greeks and Libyans ; he could not believe them , so appropriately did they come in . The Balearians grew pale as they learned how their companions had perished . It was a troop of three hundred slingers who had disembarked the evening before , and had on that day slept too late . When they reached the square of Khamon the Barbarians were gone , and they found themselves defenceless , their clay bullets having been put on the camels with the rest of the baggage . They were allowed to advance into the street of Satheb as far as the brass sheathed oaken gate ; then the people with a single impulse had sprung upon them . Indeed , the soldiers remembered a great shout ; Spendius , who was flying at the head of the columns , had not heard it . Then the corpses were placed in the arms of the Pataec gods that fringed the temple of Khamon . They were upbraided with all the crimes of the Mercenaries ; their gluttony , their thefts , their impiety , their disdain , and the murder of the fishes in Salammbo's garden . Their bodies were subjected to infamous mutilations ; the priests burned their hair in order to torture their souls ; they were hung up in pieces in the meat-shops ; some even buried their teeth in them , and in the evening funeral-piles were kindled at the cross-ways to finish them . These were the flames that had gleamed from a distance across the lake . But some houses having taken fire , any dead or dying that remained were speedily thrown over the walls ; Zarxas had remained among the reeds on the edge of the lake until the following day ; then he had wandered about through the country , seeking for the army by the footprints in the dust . In the morning he hid himself in caves ; in the evening he resumed his march with his bleeding wounds , famished , sick , living on roots and carrion ; at last one day he perceived lances on the horizon , and he had followed them , for his reason was disturbed through his terrors and miseries . The indignation of the soldiers , restrained so long as he was speaking , broke forth like a tempest ; they were going to massacre the guards together with the Suffet . A few interposed , saying that they ought to hear him and know at least whether they should be paid . Then they all cried : "" Our money ! "" Hanno replied that he had brought it . They ran to the outposts , and the Suffet's baggage arrived in the midst of the tents , pressed forward by the Barbarians . Without waiting for the slaves , they very quickly unfastened the baskets ; in them they found hyacinth robes , sponges , scrapers , brushes , perfumes , and antimony pencils for painting the eyes--all belonging to the guards , who were rich men and accustomed to such refinements . Next they uncovered a large bronze tub on a camel : it belonged to the Suffet who had it for bathing in during his journey ; for he had taken all manner of precautions , even going so far as to bring caged weasels from Hecatompylos , which were burnt alive to make his ptisan . But , as his malady gave him a great appetite , there were also many comestibles and many wines , pickle , meats and fishes preserved in honey , with little pots of Commagene , or melted goose-fat covered with snow and chopped straw . There was a considerable supply of it ; the more they opened the baskets the more they found , and laughter arose like conflicting waves . As to the pay of the Mercenaries it nearly filled two esparto-grass baskets ; there were even visible in one of them some of the leathern discs which the Republic used to economise its specie ; and as the Barbarians appeared greatly surprised , Hanno told them that , their accounts being very difficult , the Ancients had not had leisure to examine them . Meanwhile they had sent them this . Then everything was in disorder and confusion : mules , serving men , litter , provisions , and baggage . The soldiers took the coin in the bags to stone Hanno . With great difficulty he was able to mount an ass ; and he fled , clinging to its hair , howling , weeping , shaken , bruised , and calling down the curse of all the gods upon the army . His broad necklace of precious stones rebounded up to his ears . His cloak which was too long , and which trailed behind him , he kept on with his teeth , and from afar the Barbarians shouted at him , "" Begone coward ! pig ! sink of Moloch ! sweat your gold and your plague ! quicker ! quicker ! "" The routed escort galloped beside him . But the fury of the Barbarians did not abate . They remembered that several of them who had set out for Carthage had not returned ; no doubt they had been killed . So much injustice exasperated them , and they began to pull up the stakes of their tents , to roll up their cloaks , and to bridle their horses ; every one took his helmet and sword , and instantly all was ready . Those who had no arms rushed into the woods to cut staves . Day dawned ; the people of Sicca were roused , and stirring in the streets . "" They are going to Carthage , "" said they , and the rumour of this soon spread through the country . From every path and every ravine men arose . Shepherds were seen running down from the mountains . Then , when the Barbarians had set out , Spendius circled the plain , riding on a Punic stallion , and attended by his slave , who led a third horse . A single tent remained . Spendius entered it . "" Up , master ! rise ! we are departing ! "" "" And where are you going ? "" asked Matho . "" To Carthage ! "" cried Spendius . Matho bounded upon the horse which the slave held at the door ."	Prose/Lyrical
1665	Sathanur is a small village , near Aaduthurai on the banks of River Kaveri between Kumbakonam to Mayiladuthurai . This is where the mystic Sundaranathar transmigrated into the dead body of Mulan , a cowherd and resident of Sathanur , and became the Tamil mystic saint Tirumular . In Sathanur , 8th Tirumular International Day 2016 is to be held on 13 November , Sunday , in association with Tirumular trust , www.tirumular.com . This Satthanur is documented ( Tirumular Satthanur ) 69sathanur in the Tamil Nadu Revenue department register . Tirumular Sathanur An enlightened yogi Sundaranathar came from Mount Kailash to Southern part of Bharath-continent to see his contemporary mystic , . Agasthiyar , who migrated from North to South , Tamilar desam Agasthya adopted into Tamil culture , embraced Tamil saivite path The Yogi traveled through Nepal Pashupathi Nath , dipped holy bath in Ganges , visited South , Sri Kalahasthi , Srishailam , had Shiva temple darshan and Kaanchi Ekambareswarar , Thiruvadhigai , then to Chidambaram Thillai dancing Hall and entered into River Cavery delta area , had holy dip at river Cauvery , then to Thiruvaduthurai Shiva temple , crossing a village called Sathanur , where he saw a cow herd moaning for their shepherd Mulan who died and his body was among the cows . The Yogi is astonished at cow herd 's moaning and wondered what was this nation where a cow herd showed their pity to their captain shepherd , became melted and prayed Brahmmam to console the cow herd . By his mystic powers , Sundaranathar immediately transmigrated into the dead body and revived Mulan with new waves and aura around him Thus came Tirumular , Mulan transformed Tirumular still existing HIS consciousness in cosmic . This happenings occurred in 69sathanur village .	Information/Explanation
816	This module introduces the range of materials used in engineering applications along with some basic selection rules for determining the appropriate materials for a given application . The module also introduces fundamental science that determines the properties of materials , such as bonding types and atomic / molecular structures . Some of the key mechanical and physical properties of materials will be covered in the lectures and in core laboratory exercises . Additional detail on specific topics for different disciplines will be covered in non-core laboratory exercises . Core syllabus details : Classification of materials into key groups Identification of key mechanical and physical properties affecting materials selection Concept of materials selection charts Fundamental science bonding between atoms structure of engineering materials ( packing in metals and ceramics ) ( molecular chains in polymers ) relation between bonding type and structure to mechanical properties Definition and measurement of key mechanical properties	Information/Explanation
1056	The information contained on our web site is for informational purposes only . It is not intended as legal advice to ANY persons or subject matters . Messrs John Barkers specifically disclaim ALL liability to any person ( s ) in respect of any action taken upon reliance on any part of our website . At no time should any person ( s ) take actions without seeking professional / legal advice on particular facts or circumstances . If you wish to seek legal advice please telephone one of our four offices where we will be pleased to offer you an appointment .	Legal
445	"Scrap the education white paper Stop all the academies and defend comprehensive education by Ken Muller , assistant secretary Islington NUT ( pc ) Far more is at stake for the future of education than the fate of the hapless Ruth Kelly . New Labour's White Paper on schools signals a thoroughgoing assault on the principle of comprehensive education . The planned education bill based on it would lead to all schools being encouraged to break from local democratic control and turn themselves into semi-independent trusts . Such is the scale of the mounting opposition that the government now appears to fear that it will be able to get the bill through parliament only by relying on Tory votes . Senior New Labour figures said this week that Tony Blair is looking to delay publishing the bill , which was due next month , until he has been able to buy off backbench opposition . Labour backbenchers have already produced an "" alternative White Paper "" . But leading rebels have also said they are prepared to compromise . The city academy programme , which takes schools completely out of public control and hands them over to businessmen , is already law . New Labour's weakness and the rising opposition of parents mean the programme could be derailed . But that will not come by relying on MPs who voted for academies before . A possible compromise being floated over the new bill is that groups of schools could become a trust , rather than individual ones . But what 's so great about a cluster of schools in competition with another group for scarce resources ? Teacher union activists in London have called a protest march over the education proposals for 2 March . Other initiatives are taking place elsewhere across the country . © Copyright Socialist Worker ( unless otherwise stated ) . You may republish if you include an active link to the original and leave this notice in place ."	News
242	Twenty-eighth executive session Geneva , 11-13 March 2002 National Programme to Prevent , Combat and Provide Humanitarian Assistance to the Victims of Natural Disasters ( PRONAPLUCAN ) Note by the UNCTAD secretariat The National Programme to Prevent , Combat and Provide Humanitarian Assistance to the Victims of Natural Disasters ( PRONAPLUCAN ) , a national non-governmental organization , has applied for inclusion in the Register of such bodies provided for under Board decision 43 ( VII ) , sections III and IV . After consultations with the member State concerned , the Secretary-General of UNCTAD has included PRONAPLUCAN in the Register in accordance with Board decision 43 ( VII ) . Information on this organization is annexed to this note . Annex PREVENT , COMBAT AND PROVIDE HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE TO History PRONAPLUCAN was founded on 31 March 1991 following a general assembly attended by experts on disaster prevention and management , with a view to determining the causes and consequences of calamities and enabling the Democratic Republic of the Congo to play an active part in activities related to the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations in its resolution 42 / 169 of 11 December 1987 . Aims and objectives The overall aim of PRONAPLUCAN is to reduce the harmful effects of disasters with a view to achieving sustainable human development . Its specific objectives are to set up a disaster data bank containing geographical , geological , social , economic , medical and health information for the entire national territory ; to organize emergency programmes in disaster-stricken areas ; to protect and look after the environment ; and to combat poverty with a view to achieving sustainable human development . Membership PRONAPLUCAN is an association with more than 103 members , who abide by its rules , pay their subscriptions and take part in the organization's activities . Structure PRONAPLUCAN has a general assembly , a board of directors , an oversight commission and a management team . The general assembly is the highest organ . It consists of active members , honorary members and supporters and meets in ordinary session once at the beginning of each year . The board of directors is responsible for ensuring that the decisions of the general assembly are carried out . It consists of eight members , of whom seven are elected from among the active members , and meets at least twice a year at the invitation of its chairperson . The oversight commission is responsible for managing PRONAPLUCAN resources and ensuring that the organization functions properly and that management observes the rules and regulations and the decisions taken by the general assembly and the board of directors . It consists of three members elected by the general assembly and meets once a year . The management team is the executive body . It is headed by a director-general elected by the general assembly from among the active members , and has four departments ( technical , administration and finance , cooperation , and coordination of women's activities ) . The management team answers to the board of directors and manages material , human and financial resources . Financial resources The organization's income comes from members' subscriptions , gifts and bequests , membership fees , external grants and help from international bodies . Relations with other international organizations PRONAPLUCAN has consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council . It works in partnership with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ( FAO ) and the United Nations Development Programme ( UNDP ) . It also works together with several other organizations , including Caritas . Publications PRONAPLUCAN publications comprise : Five-year feasibility study on PRONAPLUCAN , by Mangala Babinga , February 1991 ; The Congo's general disaster prevention policy , by Mangala Babinga and the International Labour Organization ( ILO ) , March 1999 ; PRONAPLUCAN four-year plan of action , 1999-2001 , February 1999 . Liaison The President-General , Mr. Mangala Babinga , will be responsible for liaison with UNCTAD . Address Programme National de Prévention , de Lutte et d ' Assistance Humanitaire aux Victimes des Catastrophes Naturelles ( PRONAPLUCAN ) 1 , avenue du Commerce Immeuble INA , rez-de-chaussée BP 13 714 Kinshasa Kinshasa / Gombe Democratic Republic of the Congo Fax : 00243 12 20 373 / 00243 12 21 188 e-mail : PRONAPLUCAN @ hotmail . com The working language of the organization is French .	Information/Explanation
890	"Part Five : A Soul Not Lost She lay there with her eyes closed , lifeless , but she was n't dead . She woke up and breathed , she was at the bottom of the sea and she could breathe . She looked and saw a bright beautiful locket , she picked it up and held it in her hand ... it glowed a seducing light and it was like no one could resist its beauty . There was some thing familiar about this strange glow , then it hit her , this was her locket she lost when she came here all those years ago , she remembered she was lying on top of the ocean and her locket dropped from her hand ... she tried to get it , but she was too weak . This was a locket formed from magic of the great light her grandmother spoke of . She put it on and felt a strange feeling in her heart . She sat there on the bottom looking around and she began to see what was behind the darkness , the light granted her the gift of seeing beyond the dark . She saw bright blue sea above her and many many fish ... she saw things we 've only dreamed of seeing . Until she saw a door ... that strange door from her mysterious dream , "" No , no this ca n't be ! "" She had that piercing feeling in her heart again and fell to the floor . She put her hand over her heart and lay down . Things began to blacken in her eyes and she saw darkness . She rolled over to face the top of the ocean and she fell into darkness . She saw herself floating in darkness with nothing a sound , but a soft echo of the water running . She saw Sora reaching his hand out to her , but she could not grab it . she saw herself as a young girl floating in the ocean and she heard voices , "" What took you so long princess ? A world without you , what is the source of the heartless ? Darkness . We must find him . Where 's Sora ? Drifting in a lonely world without a soul . Sora , where 's Sora ? We 'll go together ! Kairi Kairi !!! "" Kairi somehow found herself on the beach shore soaked and still grasping that locket . Selphie and Tidus ran up to her . "" Kairi oh my God are you ok . "" they said panting . "" What 's ... what 's that Kairi ? "" She sat up and looked at the silver little locket . "" Its my locket . "" She did n't want to tell them more . She put on the necklace and left them to go to the paopu tree . She got to the tree and sat there thinking of Sora . She had a new power around her neck and now she was able to use it to find Sora ."	Prose/Lyrical
1650	"Democrats lost control of the State Senate in the November 2010 elections , and removed Klein from his role as their chief election strategist . In 2011 , Klein resigned as the Democrats' deputy leader and formed the IDC with Valesky , Carlucci , and Savino . Though Democrats won the majority of seats in the November 2012 election , the IDC continued to caucus with the Republicans , denying Democrats the majority of the chamber . Republicans gained outright control of the State Senate in the November 2014 elections , and the IDC remained with the Republican caucus in a diminished role . Democrats gained the majority of seats in the November 2016 elections , but the IDC again agreed to work with Republicans . Brooklyn Senator Simcha Felder conferences with the GOP and cast his vote for a GOP leader , giving Republicans the majority and outright control of the chamber . Following the leadership crisis , Republicans won control of the chamber in the November 2010 elections . In the fallout of the 2010 elections , Democrats replaced Klein as their chief strategist in December 2010 . Klein stepped down as deputy minority leader in January 2011 , citing disagreements with John L. Sampson , the Minority Leader of the State Senate . A few days after resigning as deputy minority leader , Klein formed a group of four Democratic Senators , also including Diane Savino , David J. Valesky , and David Carlucci , announced that they would form their own caucus within the State Senate called the "" Independent Democratic Conference "" , because they no longer approved of the Sampson's leadership . Sampson offered the IDC members minor roles on committees , and Klein reached out to Dean Skelos , the Republican leader . Skelos agreed to give the four members chairmanships of standing committees . Democratic Senators , including Ruth Hassell-Thompson , criticized Klein for leaving the campaign committee in debt and following his own personal ambitions . In the November 2012 elections , Democrats won the majority of seats in the State Senate . However , a week after the election , Simcha Felder , a newly elected Democrat , announced his intentions to caucus with the Republican Party . In December , the IDC recruited Malcolm Smith and agreed to caucus with the Republicans instead of the Democrats , giving Republicans control . Klein struck a deal with Skelos to alternate who would preside over the chamber every two weeks . Tony Avella joined the IDC in February 2014 . Liberal activists working with the Democratic Party and the Working Families Party targeted Klein and Avella during the Democratic primary elections in September 2014 , with Oliver Koppell challenging Klein and John Liu challenging Avella . Due to pressure from Governor Andrew Cuomo and labor unions , Klein indicated in June 2014 that the IDC would rejoin the Democratic caucus after the November 2014 elections . Still , the IDC supported Betty Jean Grant ' s unsuccessful primary challenge against Timothy M. Kennedy , due to her pro-choice political stance . Klein and Avella won their primaries . In the general election , Republicans won control of the Senate outright , with Skelos assuming complete control . Though the new Democratic leader , Andrea Stewart-Cousins , had continued discussions with Klein about the IDC rejoining the Democrats , the IDC members decided to remain with the Republicans in the 2015 legislative session . During the 2015 session , the IDC successfully pushed the Republicans to include paid family leave and a $ 15 per hour minimum wage in the state budget . Klein also pushed for more funding to the New York City Housing Authority , and obtained $ 100 million . During Skelos ' 2015 trial for corruption , a wiretapped conversation was aired where Skelos argued that in their power sharing agreement , the IDC would have no real power and it would serve to hinder Democrats by keeping them divided . Klein indicated that this recording would not change the IDC agreement with Republicans . Heading into the November 2016 elections , Klein would not commit to rejoining the Democrats . Following the 2014 primary challenges , the IDC formed their own campaign committee through an agreement with the Independence Party of New York . After the elections , newly elected Senators Marisol Alcantara and Jesse Hamilton joined the IDC . Despite pressure from liberal activists to find a way to unite the 24 mainstream Democrats with the IDC and Felder to form a 32-member majority , including Stewart-Cousins attempting to involve Cuomo , the IDC and Felder continued their relationships with the 31 Senate Republicans , giving Republicans the majority in the 2017 legislative session . In January , Jose Peralta joined the IDC . Following the election and inauguration of Donald Trump as President of the United States , Democrats and constituents of the IDC members began to criticize the IDC for enabling Republican control ."	Information/Explanation
211	Financial performance report for the biennium 2006-2007 Submitted by the Director-General Contents Introduction In its conclusion 1987 / 19 , paragraph ( j ) , the Programme and Budget Committee requested the Director-General to submit each year to the Industrial Development Board through the Committee a clear and detailed financial performance report itemizing the utilization of financial resources . The present document presents a comparison of the budget estimates in terms of appropriations and income with actual expenditures and income for the biennium 2006-2007 . The information is provided for both the regular and operational budgets . Regular budget Budget estimates for the biennium The budget estimates for the biennium 2006-2007 approved by the General Conference in decision GC . 11 / Dec. 18 consisted of gross expenditure of € 154 , 009 , 900 to be financed from assessed contributions in the amount of € 150 , 785 , 600 and other income of € 3 , 224 , 300 . The present document thus presents the financial performance report on the basis of the programme and budgets for 2006-2007 , as contained in document GC . 11 / 11 , approved in General Conference decision GC . 11 / Dec. 18 and assessed on Member States . Assessed contribution income for 2006-2007 The financial implementation of the approved programme and budgets is dependent on the actual level of cash resources available during the biennium . The source of financing of the regular budget is the assessed contributions of Member States . Assessed contributions for the biennium 2006-2007 paid to the Organization as compared with the amounts originally assessed in accordance with General Conference decision GC . 11 / Dec. 18 are as follows : a See document IDB . 35 / 3-PBC . 24 / 3 , schedule 1 . C. Comparison of budget with actual expenditure and income for 2006-2007 A comparison of actual expenditure and income with the approved budget for the biennium is presented below : Comparisons of budget estimates with actual expenditure and income by major programme and major object of expenditure are presented in tables 1 and 2 respectively . Explanations of underutilization by major programme and major object of expenditure are provided in the following paragraphs . Utilization of the budget The net underutilization of the regular budget of € 12 . 4 million ( 8 . 3 per cent ) comprised an under-expenditure of € 14 . 5 million ( 9 . 5 per cent ) and a shortfall in income of € 2 . 1 million ( 65 . 2 per cent ) . The single most important factor contributing to the underutilization was due to non - or late / uncertain payment of assessed contributions . Collection rates As seen from the table , the collection rate during the biennium developed slower than in the previous biennium . While the final collection rate was in fact higher , the rates in March , June and September were lower than in the same period in the previous biennium . The delayed collections had a negative impact on the expenditure planning . E. Financial implementation by major programme Most major programmes were affected by the overall underutilization of the regular budget for the reasons described in paragraph 7 above . Major Programme A ( Governing Bodies ) had an unutilized balance of € 0 . 2 million ( 6 per cent ) out of the approved budget , mainly due to savings resulting from joint translation costs and delayed recruitment of staff . Major Programme B ( General Management ) had an unutilized balance of € 1 . 1 million ( 8 . 7 per cent ) out of the approved budget estimate . Most of the savings occurred under personnel costs as a consequence of unoccupied posts . Major Programme C ( Energy and Environment ) had an unutilized balance of € 1 . 2 million ( 6 . 4 per cent ) of the originally approved budget . This mostly occurred as a result of a programmatic shift in the Special Resources for Africa from Major Programme C to Major Programme D ( Trade Capacity-building ) . Major Programme D ( Trade Capacity-building ) had an unutilized balance of € 0 . 2 million ( 1 . 2 per cent ) of the originally approved budget . Staff cost savings in the amount of € 1 . 7 million have been partially offset by increased expenditure under consultancy ( € 0 . 27 million ) as well as higher spending for the Special Resources for Africa ( € 1 . 6 million ) as described above . Major Programme E ( Poverty Reduction through Productive Activities ) had spent € 3 . 6 million ( 19 . 5 per cent ) less than budgeted . The Major Programme was subject to savings under personnel costs mainly from a high vacancy rate resulting in a saving of € 2 . 0 million . There was also a saving in the Special Resources for Africa in the amount of € 1 . 6 million due to a shift in the programmatic focus towards Major Programme F. Major Programme F ( Cross-Cutting Programmes ) had been implemented with a reduced expenditure of € 4 . 09 million ( 13 . 2 per cent ) . The main contributing factor was staff cost savings in the amount of € 4 . 0 million , followed by underexpenditure in field network operating costs ( € 1 . 4 million ) mainly arising from the fluctuation of the dollar . These savings were partly offset by increased expenditure in the Special Resources for Africa amounting to € 1 . 3 million , as mentioned in the previous paragraph . Major Programme G ( Administration ) had been implemented with a reduced expenditure of € 1 . 3 million ( 4 . 9 per cent ) . The main contributing factor was underexpenditure in communication costs of € 0 . 6 million , which was driven by lower communication service charges . This is followed by underexpenditure in operating costs of € 0 . 3 million and staff cost savings in the amount of € 0 . 3 million . Major Programme H ( Buildings Management ) had generated savings amounting to some € 3 . 3 million under staff costs due to high vacancy rates during the biennium . At the same time , the Buildings Management Services ( BMS ) special account recorded a surplus of € 4 . 3 million , which brought the closing balance to a level of € 19 . 9 million , out of which € 9 . 3 million is still receivable . The accumulated funds on the BMS special account are fully programmed in connection with the ongoing refurbishment activities in the VIC , including that of the present conference building C. Major Programme I ( Indirect Costs ) had recorded savings in the amount of € 2 . 6 million ( 13 . 4 per cent ) . The savings were partly attributable to UNIDO's share of the reduced staff costs in BMS ( € 0 . 9 million ) as reported above , but also to reduced expenditures under the various joint and common services , for example the security and safety services of € 0 . 75 million . Financial implementation by major object of expenditure The underutilization of budgeted costs of € 9 . 2 million ( 8 . 8 per cent ) under personnel costs comprises : As it is apparent from the above table , the underutilization of budgeted salary and common staff costs was mainly due to the higher than budgeted vacancy factors for Professional and General Service posts . Given that the largest component of the Organization's regular budget is staff costs , it was necessary to make the most significant savings under this item in order to compensate for the expected non - or late / uncertain payment of assessed contributions . As the payment pattern became clearer in the second year of the biennium , some of the staff shortages were alleviated by an increased usage of temporary assistance and consultancy funds . Underutilization of funds for official travel of € 0 . 03 million ( 1 . 4 per cent ) represented an almost full utilization . Savings in operating cost items in the amount of € 4 . 3 million ( 16 . 2 per cent ) were the result of reduced requirements for document production and translation of € 1 . 4 million , savings under the contribution to the security and safety services of € 0 . 8 million and on UNIDO's share of the overall reduced costs in BMS of € 1 . 2 million and € 0 . 9 million in total field network operating costs mainly arising from the fluctuation of the United States dollar . The underutilization of € 0 . 9 million ( 15 . 2 per cent ) of information and communication technology resources was due to the reduction in communication service charges of € 0 . 71 million and a reduction in IT consultancy costs of € 0 . 37 million , partially offset by increases in other IT expenses . Regular Programme of Technical Cooperation resources were administered under the special account created for the purpose to which the full appropriation has been transferred . A marginal underutilization of € 0 . 16 million was recognized under the Special Resources for Africa . Income The deficit of income over the budget estimates comprises : The deficit in cost reimbursement income of € 0 . 8 million was directly related to the lower than anticipated contributions of Governments to the costs of UNIDO field offices . Miscellaneous income as contained in the budget estimates approved in decision GC . 11 / Dec. 18 of € 1 . 5 million was not fully achieved as illustrated below . Of the € 1 . 7 million net currency exchange adjustment , € 1 . 2 million represents the mandatory transfer to the exchange reserve account in line with the terms of decision GC . 8 / Dec. 16 , to protect the Organization from exchange rate fluctuations . The remaining € 0 . 5 million represent a net revaluation loss of book balances . Operational budget The operational budget is funded mainly from support cost reimbursement income earned on technical cooperation project delivery and from technical services provided by the Organization . Expenditure estimates to be financed during the biennium from support cost income were presented in the programme and budget document GC . 11 / 11 and approved by the General Conference in decision GC . 11 / Dec. 18 . The financial results for the biennium are as follows : A comparison of actual expenditure with the budget estimates is presented in tables 3 and 4 by major programme and major object of expenditure , respectively . While actual technical cooperation delivery and income did not reach the budgeted level , expenditure control resulted in the further increase of the operating reserve . Accordingly , the net reserve of € 5 . 1 million brought forward from 2005 , increased to € 6 . 5 million as at 31 December 2007 resulting in a surplus for the biennium 2006-2007 of € 1 . 4 million , after taking into account cancellation of prior biennium obligations and prior biennium adjustments . Action required of the Committee The Committee may wish to take note of the information provided in the present document . Table 1 Regular budget Financial performance report for 2006-2007 by major programme ( In thousands of euros ) a Approved in decision GC . 11 / Dec. 18 . b The balance of the appropriation reported above is attributed to the special account of BMS and is not subject to the financial regulations 4.2 ( b ) and 4.2 ( c ) . * Itemized separately below . Table 2 Regular budget Financial performance report for 2006-2007 by major object of expenditure ( In thousands of euros ) a Approved in decision GC . 11 / Dec. 18 . Table 3 Operational budget Financial performance report for 2006-2007 by major programme ( In thousands of euros ) a Approved in decision GC . 11 / Dec. 18 . Table 4 Operational budget Financial performance report for 2006-2007 by major object of expenditure ( In thousands of euros ) a Approved in decision GC . 11 / Dec. 18 . For reasons of economy , this document has been printed in a limited number . Delegates are kindly requested to bring their copies of documents to meetings .	News
768	Role of stem cells and differentiated cells in the genesis of squamous cell carcinoma Fiona M Watt CR-UK London Research Institute , London , UK It is widely accepted that oncogenic mutations in stem cells are responsible for driving the development of epidermal tumours . Nevertheless , there is growing evidence that non-dividing cells that are undergoing differentiation can play a role in determining whether an epidermal tumour will progress or regress . In addition , communication between epidermal cells and cells of the immune system can affect tumour formation . In my talk I will discuss some of the mechanisms by which differentiated cells can influence squamous cell carcinoma formation .	Information/Explanation
934	"A certain man fell ill , and , being in a very bad way , he made a vow that he would sacrifice a hundred oxen to the gods if they would grant him a return to health . Wishing to see how he would keep his vow , they caused him to recover in a short time . Now , he had n't an ox in the world , so he made a hundred little oxen out of tallow and offered them up on an altar , at the same time saying , "" Ye gods , I call you to witness that I have discharged my vow . "" The gods determined to be even with him , so they sent him a dream , in which he was bidden to go to the sea-shore and fetch a hundred crowns which he was to find there . Hastening in great excitement to the shore , he fell in with a band of robbers , who seized him and carried him off to sell as a slave : and when they sold him a hundred crowns was the sum he fetched . Do not promise more than you can perform ."	Prose/Lyrical
1027	"Legislation relating to Buildings of Special Architectural or Historic Interest ( Listed Buildings ) These are the sections specifically relevant to Historic ( Listed ) Buildings . Full copies of the Order are available from HMSO Bookshops and through good booksellers . S.I. 1991 No. 1220 ( N.I. 11 ) The Planning ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1991 PART V Buildings of Special Architectural or Historic Interest Paragraphs 42 to 52 PART VI Enforcement Notices - Listed Buildings Paragraphs 77 to 80 PART X Further provisions as to Historic Buildings Paragraphs 105 to 109 SCHEDULES SCHEDULE 1 Listed Building Consent - Applications and Appeals SCHEDULE 3 The Historic Buildings Council PART V ADDITIONAL PLANNING CONTROL Buildings of special architectural or historic interest Lists of buildings of special architectural or historic interest Lists of buildings of special architectural or historic interest 42 . ( 1 ) The Department ( a ) . shall compile lists of buildings of special architectural or historic interest ; and ( b ) . may amend any list so compiled . ( 2 ) In considering whether to include a building in a list compiled under this Article the Department may take into account not only the building itself but also ( a ) . any respect in which its exterior contributes to the architectural or historic interest of any group of buildings of which it forms part ; and ( b ) . the desirability of preserving , on the ground of its architectural or historic interest , any feature of the building which consists of a man-made object or structure fixed to the building or which forms a part of the land and which is comprised within the curtilage of the building . ( 3 ) Before compiling or amending any list under this Article , the Department shall consult with the Historic Buildings Council and with the appropriate district council . ( 4 ) As soon as may be after any list has been compiled under this Article , or any amendments of such a list have been made , the Department shall cause a copy of so much of the list , or so much of the amendments , as relates to the area of a district council to be deposited with the clerk of that council . ( 5 ) As soon as may be after the inclusion of any building in a list under this Article , whether on the compilation of the list or by its amendment , or as soon as may be after any such list has been amended by the exclusion of any building from it , the Department shall serve a notice in the prescribed form on every owner and occupier of the building , stating that the building has been included in , or excluded from , the list , as the case may be . ( 6 ) The Department shall keep available for inspection by the public at all reasonable hours copies of lists and amendments of lists compiled or made under this Article . ( 7 ) In this Order "" listed building "" means a building which is for the time being included in a list compiled under this Article ; and , for the purposes of the provisions of the Order relating to listed buildings , the following shall be treated as part of the building ( a ) . any object or structure within the curtilage of the building and fixed to the building ; ( b ) . any object or structure within the curtilage of the building which , although not fixed to the building , forms part of the land and has done so since before 1st October 1973 . Issue of a certificate that building is not intended to be listed 43 . ( 1 ) Where ( a ) . application has been made for planning permission for any development involving the alteration , extension or demolition of a building ; or ( b ) any such planning permission has been granted , the issue by the Department , on the application of any person , of a certificate stating that it does not intend to list the building shall preclude the Department , for a period of five years from the date of issue of the certificate , from exercising in relation to that building any of the powers conferred on it by Article 42 . ( 2 ) An application for the issue of a certificate under paragraph ( 1 ) shall be made to the Department in writing and Article 22 shall apply in relation to an application for the issue of a certificate under paragraph ( 1 ) as it applies in relation to an application for planning permission . ( 3 ) Before issuing any certificate under paragraph ( 1 ) , the Department shall consult with the Historic Buildings Council and with the district council for the area in which the building is situated . Control of works for demolition , alteration or extension of listed buildings 44 . ( 1 ) Subject to this Part , if a person executes or causes to be executed any works for the demolition of a listed building or for its alteration or extension in any manner which would affect its character as a building of special architectural or historic interest , and the works are not authorised under paragraph ( 2 ) , he shall be guilty of an offence . ( 2 ) Works for the demolition , alteration or extension of a listed building are authorised under this Part if ( a ) . written consent for the execution of the works has been granted by the Department and the works are carried out in accordance with the terms of the consent and any conditions which may be attached to the consent ; and ( b ) . in the case of demolition ( i ) a person duly authorised in writing by the Department has been afforded reasonable access to the building for a period of at least one month following the grant of listed building consent and before the commencement of the works , for the purpose of recording it ; or ( ii ) the Department has stated in writing that it has completed its recording of the building or that it does not wish to record it . ( 3 ) If written consent is granted by the Department for the retention of works for the demolition of a listed building , or for its alteration or extension , which have been executed without consent under paragraph ( 2 ) , the works are authorised under this Part from the grant of the consent under this paragraph . ( 4 ) Consent under paragraph ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) is referred to in this Order as "" listed building consent "" . ( 5 ) Without prejudice to paragraph ( 1 ) , if a person executing or causing to be executed any works in relation to a listed building under a listed building consent fails to comply with any condition attached to the consent he shall be guilty of an offence . ( 6 ) A person guilty of an offence under paragraph ( 1 ) or ( 5 ) shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or on conviction on indictment to a fine and in determining the amount of any fine imposed on a person convicted on indictment the court shall have particular regard to any financial benefit which has accrued or is likely to accrue to him in consequence of the offence . ( 7 ) In proceedings for an offence under this Article it shall be a defence to prove the following matters ( a ) . that works to the building were urgently necessary in the interests of safety or health or for the preservation of the building ; ( b ) . that it was not practicable to secure safety or health or , as the case may be , the preservation of the building by works of repair or works for affording temporary support or shelter ; ( c ) . that the works carried out were limited to the minimum measures immediately necessary ; and ( d ) . that notice in writing justifying in detail the carrying out of the works was given to the Department as soon as reasonably practicable . ( 8 ) This Article shall not apply to works for the demolition , alteration or extension of ( a ) . an ecclesiastical building which is for the time being used for ecclesiastical purposes or would be so used but for the works ; or ( b ) . a building which is the subject of a guardianship or protection order under the Historic Monuments Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1971 ; or ( c ) . a building for the time being included in a schedule of historic monuments published by the Department under that Act ; and for the purposes of this paragraph , a building used or available for use by a minister of religion wholly or mainly as a residence from which to perform the duties of his office shall be treated as not being an ecclesiastical building . ( 9 ) Paragraph ( 8 ) shall cease to have effect on such date as the Department may by order appoint . Provisions supplementary to Article 44 45 . ( 1 ) In considering whether to grant planning permission for development which affects a listed building or its setting , and in considering whether to grant listed building consent for any works , the Department shall have special regard to the desirability of preserving the building or its setting or any features of special architectural or historic interest which it possesses . ( 2 ) Listed building consent may be refused , or granted either unconditionally or subject to conditions . ( 3 ) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph ( 2 ) , the conditions subject to which listed building consent may be granted include conditions with respect to ( a ) . the preservation of particular features of the building either as part of it or after severance therefrom ; ( b ) . the making good , after the works are completed , of any damage caused to the building by the works ; and ( c ) . the reconstruction of the building or any part of it following the execution of any works , with the use of original materials so far as practicable and with such alterations of the interior of the building as may be specified in the conditions . ( 4 ) Listed building consent may be granted subject to a condition reserving specified details of the works ( whether or not set out in the application ) for subsequent approval by the Department . ( 5 ) Listed building consent for the demolition of a listed building may be granted subject to a condition that the building shall not be demolished before a contract for the carrying out of works of redevelopment of the site has been made , and planning permission has been granted for the redevelopment for which the contract provides . ( 6 ) Schedule 1 shall have effect in relation to applications for listed building consent and appeals against decisions on such applications . Duration of listed building consent 46 . ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of this Article , every listed building consent shall be granted subject to the condition that the works to which it relates must be begun not later than the expiration of ( a ) . five years beginning with the date on which the consent is granted ; or ( b ) . such other period ( whether longer or shorter ) beginning with the said date as the Department may direct , being a period which the Department considers appropriate having regard to any material considerations . ( 2 ) If listed building consent is granted without the condition required by paragraph ( 1 ) , it shall be deemed to have been granted subject to the condition that the works to which it relates must be begun not later than the expiration of five years beginning with the date of the grant . ( 3 ) Nothing in this Article applies to any consent to the retention of works granted under Article 44 ( 3 ) . Revocation or modification of listed building consent 47 . ( 1 ) If it appears to the Department , having regard to the development plan and to any other material considerations , that it is expedient to revoke or modify listed building consent in respect of any works to a building , being consent granted on an application made under this Part , the Department may , subject to paragraphs ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) , by order revoke or modify the consent to such extent as ( having regard to those matters ) it considers expedient . ( 2 ) Before making an order under this Article the Department shall serve notice on the owner and occupier of the building affected and on any other person who in its opinion would be affected by the order ; and if within such period as may be specified in that behalf n the notice ( not being less than 28 days from the date of service thereof ) any person on whom notice is served so requests in writing , the Department shall afford to him an opportunity of appearing before and being heard by the planning appeals commission . ( 3 ) The power conferred by this Article to revoke or modify listed building consent in respect of any works may be exercised at any time before those works have been completed , but the revocation or modification shall not affect so much of those works as has been previously carried out . ( 4 ) Where the Department makes an order under this Article it shall serve a notice on any person mentioned in paragraph ( 2 ) stating the general effect of the order . Applications to determine whether listed building consent required 48 . ( 1 ) If any person who proposes to execute or cause to be executed any works to a listed building wishes to have it determined whether those works would involve the alteration or extension of the building in any manner which would affect its character as a building of special architectural or historic interest , he may apply to the Department to determine that question . ( 2 ) The provisions of paragraphs 1 ( 1 ) , 7 and 8 of Schedule 1 shall , subject to any necessary modifications , apply in relation to any application under this Article , and to the determination thereof , as they apply in relation to applications for listed building consent and to the determination of such applications . ( 3 ) Where an application for listed building consent is made to the Department and it appears to the Department that the execution of the works specified in the application does not involve the alteration or extension of a listed building in any manner which would affect its character as a building of special architectural or historic interest , the Department may treat the application for listed building consent as an application under this Article and may make an appropriate determination . Acts causing or likely to result in damage to listed buildings 49 . ( 1 ) Where a building , not being a building excluded by paragraph ( 8 ) of Article 44 from the operation of that Article , is included in a list compiled under Article 42 , then , if any person who , but for this Article , would be entitled to do so ( a ) . does or permits the doing of any act which causes or is likely to result in damage to the building ( other than an act for the execution of excepted works ) ; and ( b ) . does or permits the act with the intention of causing such damage ; he shall be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale . ( 2 ) In paragraph ( 1 ) "" excepted works "" means ( a ) . works authorised by planning permission granted in pursuance of an application under this Order ; or ( b ) . works for which listed building consent has been given under this Order . ( 3 ) Where a person convicted under this Article fails to take such reasonable steps as may be necessary to prevent any damage or further damage resulting from the offence , he shall be guilty of a further offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding one-tenth of level 3 on the standard scale for each day on which the failure continues . Areas of special architectural or historic interest Conservation areas 50 . ( 1 ) The Department may designate areas of special architectural or historic interest the character or appearance of which it is desirable to preserve or enhance . ( 2 ) The Department may vary or cancel a designation under paragraph ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) Before making , varying or cancelling a designation under this Article , the Department shall consult with the Historic Buildings Council and with any appropriate district council . ( 4 ) The Department shall publish notice of the designation of any conservation area and of any variation or cancellation of any such designation , with sufficient particulars to identify the area affected , in at least one newspaper circulating in the locality of the area . ( 5 ) Where any area is for the time being designated as a conservation area , special attention shall be paid to the desirability of preserving or enhancing its character or appearance in the exercise , with respect to any buildings or other land in that area , of any powers under this Order . ( 6 ) In this Order "" conservation area "" means an area designated under paragraph ( 1 ) . Control of demolition in conservation areas 51 . ( 1 ) This Article applies to all buildings in conservation areas other than a . listed buildings ; b . buildings of a class specified in Article 44 ( 8 ) ; c . buildings in relation to which a direction under paragraph ( 3 ) is for the time being in force . ( 2 ) A building to which this Article applies shall not be demolished without the consent of the Department . ( 3 ) The Department may ( a ) . direct that this Article shall not apply to a description of buildings specified in the direction ; and ( b ) . vary or revoke that direction by a further direction . ( 4 ) Where the Department gives a direction under paragraph ( 3 ) , it shall publish a copy of the direction in the Belfast Gazette and in a newspaper circulating in the area in which the buildings are situated . ( 5 ) The following provisions , namely ( a ) . Articles 44 to 48 , 77 to 79 , 94 and 113 ( 1 ) ( b ) and ( 4 ) ; and ( b ) . Article 65 of the Planning ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1972 , shall have effect in relation to buildings to which this Article applies as they have effect in relation to listed buildings , subject to such exceptions and modifications as may be prescribed . ( 6 ) If this Article ceases to apply to a building ( a ) . any proceedings on or arising out of an application for listed building consent made while this Article applied to the building shall lapse ; ( b ) . any listed building consent granted in respect to the building shall also lapse ; ( c ) . the cesser shall not affect the liability of any person to be prosecuted and punished for an offence under Article 44 or 77 committed by him with respect to the building while this Article applied to it . Grants in relation to conservation areas 52 . ( 1 ) The Department may , in relation to any conservation area , make grants or loans for the purpose of defraying in whole or in part any expenditure incurred or to be incurred in or in connection with , or with a view to the promotion of , the preservation or enhancement of the character or appearance of the area or any part thereof . ( 2 ) A grant or loan under this Article may be made subject to such conditions as the Department thinks fit . ( 3 ) Any loan under this Article shall be made on such terms as to repayment , payment of interest and otherwise as the Department may with the approval of the Department of Finance and Personnel determine ; and all sums received by the Department by way of interest on , or repayment of , such a loan shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund . PART VI ENFORCEMENT NOTICES-LISTED BUILDINGS Listed buildings Listed building enforcement notices 77 . ( 1 ) Where it appears to the Department that any works have been or are being executed to a listed building and are such as to involve a contravention of Article 44 ( 1 ) or ( 5 ) , then , subject to paragraph ( 3 ) , the Department may , if it considers it expedient to do so having regard to the effect of the works on the character of the building as one of special architectural or historic interest , issue a notice ( a ) . specifying the alleged contravention ; and ( b ) . requiring such steps as may be specified in the notice to be taken within such period as may be so specified i . for restoring the building to its former state ; or ii . where the Department considers that such restoration would not be reasonably practicable , or would be undesirable , for executing such further works specified in the notice as it considers necessary to alleviate the effect of the works which were carried out without listed building consent ; or iii . for bringing the building to the state in which it would have been if the terms and conditions of any listed building consent which has been granted for the works had been compiled with . ( 2 ) A notice under this Article is referred to in this Order as a "" listed building enforcement notice "" . ( 3 ) A listed building enforcement notice shall not be served in relation to a contravention of Article 44 ( 1 ) or ( 5 ) which occurred before 9th December 1978 . ( 4 ) Subject to Article 78 , a listed building enforcement notice shall take effect on a date specified in it . ( 5 ) Where a listed building enforcement notice imposes any such requirement as is mentioned in paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) , listed building consent shall be deemed to be granted for any works of demolition , alteration or extension of the building executed as a result of compliance with the notice . ( 6 ) Articles 68 ( 5 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) and 72 and 74 shall , with any necessary modifications , apply to a listed building enforcement notice as they apply to an enforcement notice . Appeal against listed building enforcement notice 78 . ( 1 ) A person having an estate in the building to which a listed building enforcement notice relates or a person to whom paragraph ( 2 ) applies may , at any time before the date specified in the notice as the date on which it is to take effect , appeal to the planning appeals commission against the notice on any of the following grounds ( a ) that the matters alleged to constitute a contravention of Article 44 do not involve such a contravention ; ( b ) that the contravention of that Article alleged in the notice has not taken place ; ( c ) that the contravention of that Article alleged in the notice occurred before 9th December 1978 ; ( d ) that works to the building were urgently necessary in the interests of safety or health or for the preservation of the building , that it was not practicable to secure safety or health or , as the case may be , the preservation of the building by works of repair or works for affording temporary support or shelter , and that the works carried out were limited to the minimum measures immediately necessary ; ( e ) that listed building consent ought to be granted for the works , or that any relevant condition of such consent which has been granted ought to be discharged or different conditions substituted ; ( f ) that copies of the notice were not served as required by Article 68 ( 5 ) as applied by Article 77 ( 6 ) ; ( g ) that the period specified in the notice as the period within which any step required thereby is to be taken falls short of what should reasonably be allowed ; ( h ) except in relation to such a requirement as is mentioned in Article 77 ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) or ( iii ) , the requirements of the notice exceed what is necessary for restoring the building to its condition before the works were carried out ; ( i ) that the steps required by the notice for the purpose of restoring the character of the building to its former state would not serve that purpose ; ( j ) that steps required to be taken by virtue of Article 77 ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) exceed what is necessary to alleviate the effect of the works executed to the building ; ( k ) that steps required to be taken by virtue of Article 77 ( a ) ( b ) ( iii ) exceed what is necessary to bring the building to the state in which it would have been if the terms and conditions of the listed building consent had been complied with . ( 2 ) This paragraph applies to a person who on the date on which the listed building enforcement notice is issued occupies the building to which it relates by virtue of a licence in writing ; and continues to occupy the building as aforesaid when the appeal is brought . ( 3 ) Paragraphs ( 4 ) to ( 8 ) of Article 69 to 70 shall , with any necessary modifications , apply to an appeal under this Article against a listed building enforcement notice as they apply to an appeal under Article 69 against an enforcement notice . ( 4 ) On the determination of an appeal under this Article , the planning appeals commission may ( a ) grant listed building consent for the works to which the listed building enforcement notice relates or for part only of those works ; ( b ) discharge any condition or limitation subject to which listed building consent was granted and substitute any other condition , whether more or less onerous . ( 5 ) Any listed building consent granted by the planning appeals commission under paragraph ( 4 ) shall , subject to paragraph ( 6 ) , have the like effect as a listed building consent granted under Part V. ( 6 ) The decision of the commission in relation to the grant of listed building consent under paragraph ( 4 ) shall be final . ( 7 ) The validity of a listed building enforcement notice shall not , except by way of an appeal under this Article , be questioned n any proceedings whatsoever on any of the grounds on which such an appeal may be brought . Effect of listed building consent on listed buildings enforcement notice . 79 . ( 1 ) If , after the issue of a listed building enforcement notice , consent is granted under Article 44 ( 3 ) for the retention of any work to which the listed building enforcement notice relates , the listed building enforcement notice shall cease to have effect in so far as it requires steps to be taken which would involve the works not being retained in accordance with the consent . ( 2 ) If the consent is granted so as to permit the retention of works without complying with some condition subject to which a previous listed building consent was granted , the listed building enforcement notice shall cease to have effect in so far as it requires steps to be taken for complying with that condition . ( 3 ) The preceding provisions of this Article shall be without prejudice to the liability of any person for an offence n respect of a failure to comply with the listed building enforcement notice before the relevant provisions of that notice ceased to have effect . Urgent works to preserve building 80 . ( 1 ) Where it appears to the Department that works are urgently necessary for the preservation of ( a ) . a listed building , or ( b ) . a building in respect of which a direction has been given by the Department that this Article shall apply , the Department may , subject to the following provisions of this Article , execute the works , which may consist of or include works for affording temporary support or shelter for the building . ( 2 ) The ground on which the Department may give a direction that this Article shall apply to a building is that the building is in a conservation area and it appears to the Department that its preservation is important for maintaining the character or appearance of the conservation area . ( 3 ) If the building is occupied works may be carried out only to those parts which are not in use . ( 4 ) The owner of the building shall be given not less than seven days' notice in writing of the intention to carry out the works and the notice shall describe the works proposed to be carried out . ( 5 ) Paragraphs ( 6 ) to ( 10 ) have effect for enabling the expenses of works executed under this Article to be recovered by the Department . ( 6 ) The Department may give notice to the owner of the building requiring him to pay the expenses of the works . ( 7 ) Where the works consist of or include works for affording temporary support or shelter for the building a . the expenses which may be recovered include any continuing expenses involved in making available the apparatus or materials used ; and b . notices under paragraph ( 6 ) in respect of any such continuing expenses may be given from time to time . ( 8 ) The owner may within 28 days of the service of the notice appeal to the planning appeals commission against the notice on any of the following grounds a . that some or all of the works were unnecessary for the preservation of the building ; b . in the case of works for affording temporary support or shelter , that the temporary arrangements have continued for an unreasonable length of time ; c . that the amount specified in the notice is unreasonable or that the recovery of it would cause him hardship . ( 9 ) The planning appeals commission shall give notice of its determination , the reasons for it and the amount recoverable to the owner of the building and to the Department and the determination of the appeals commission shall be final . ( 10 ) Any expenses recoverable by the Department under this Article shall be a civil debt recoverable summarily . PART X FURTHER PROVISIONS AS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS Historic Buildings Council 105 . ( 1 ) There shall continue to be a Council called "" the Historic Buildings Council "" ( in this Order referred to as "" the Council "" ) . ( 2 ) The functions of the Council shall be a . to keep under review , and from time to time report to the Department on , the general state of preservation of listed buildings ; b . to advise the Department on such matters relating to the preservation of buildings of special architectural or historic interest as the Department may refer to it ; c . such other functions as are conferred on it by any statutory provision . ( 3 ) Schedule 3 shall have effect with respect to the Council . Grants and loans for preservation or acquisition of listed buildings 106 . ( 1 ) The Department may make grants or loans towards the whole or part of any expenditure incurred or to be incurred in the repair or maintenance of a listed building or in the upkeep of any land comprising , or contiguous or adjacent to , any such building , or in the repair or maintenance of any objects ordinarily kept in the building . ( 2 ) The Department may , on such terms and conditions as the Department , with the approval of the Department of Finance and Personnel , thinks fit , make grants or loans to the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty towards the cost of acquiring a . any listed building ; b . any land comprising , or contiguous or adjacent to , any such building ; c . any objects ordinarily kept in any such building . ( 3 ) Grants under paragraph ( 1 ) to the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty may , if the Department thinks fit , be made by way of endowment . ( 4 ) The Department may attach to any grant or loan under paragraph ( 1 ) such conditions as it thinks fit for securing public access to the whole or part of the property to which the grant or loan relates . ( 5 ) Any loan under paragraph ( 1 ) shall be made on such terms as to repayment , payment of interest and otherwise as the Department may , with the approval of the Department of Finance and Personnel , determine . Acquisition of listed buildings by agreement 107 . ( 1 ) The Department may acquire by agreement , whether by purchase , lease or otherwise , or may accept the gift of a . any listed building ; b . any land comprising , or contiguous or adjacent to , any such building . ( 2 ) The Department may purchase by agreement , or accept a gift of , any objects which are or have been ordinarily kept in a listed building which , or any estate in which , is vested in the Department , or in a listed building which is under its control or management . ( 3 ) The Department may make such arrangements as it thinks fit for the management , custody and use of any property acquired or accepted by it under this Article . ( 4 ) Where the Department is of the opinion that any property acquired by it under this Article would be more expediently or efficiently managed or preserved by a . the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty ; b . or any government department ; or c . a district council ; or d . such other body as the Department thinks suitable ; the Department may , with the approval of the Department of Finance and Personnel , convey either for value or otherwise and upon such terms and conditions as the Department may think fit , that property to that Trust , government department , district council or other body , and may3 ⁄ 4 i . impose such restrictions as the Department may think necessary on the user of the land so conveyed ; and ii . grant or reserve such rights over such land as the Department thinks fit . Acceptance by Department of endowments in respect of listed buildings 108 . ( 1 ) Where any instrument coming into operation after 1st November 1972 contains a provision purporting to be a gift of property to the Department upon trust to use the income thereof ( either for a limited time or in perpetuity ) for or towards the upkeep of a listed building or other property acquired or accepted by the Department under Article 107 or a building which the Department proposes so to acquire or accept , the Department may accept the gift , and if it does so , and the provision does not constitute a charitable trust , paragraphs ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) shall have effect . ( 2 ) The validity of the gift and of the trust to use the income as aforesaid ( in this Article referred to as "" the endowment trust ) shall be deemed not to be , or ever to have been , affected by any rule of law or equity which would not have affected their validity if the trust had been charitable . ( 3 ) In relation to the property ( of whatsoever nature ) comprised in the gift and any property for the time being representing that property ( in this Article collectively referred to as "" the trust fund "" ) the Department shall during the continuance of the endowment trust have the like powers of management , disposition and investment as in the case of settled land are conferred by law on the tenant for life and the trustees of the settlement in relation to the land and the proceeds of its sale , respectively . ( 4 ) Paragraph ( 3 ) does not prejudice any additional or larger powers conferred on the Department by the trust instrument . ( 5 ) If while the endowment trust continues an event happens such that immediately thereafter the Department is neither entitled to any estate in the building to which the trust relates nor has the building under its control or management , and apart from this paragraph the endowment trust would not then be determined or be deemed to have failed , then on the happening of that event the endowment trust shall cease by virtue of this paragraph and the trust fund shall devolve accordingly as on a failure of the trust . ( 6 ) If the trust instrument contains a provision whereby , on the failure or determination of the endowment trust , the trust fund purports to be given , or to be directed to be held , on charitable trusts , the validity of that gift or direction shall be deemed not to be , or ever to have been , affected by any rule of law or equity relating to perpetuities . ( 7 ) In this Article "" gift "" includes devise , bequest , appointment , conveyance , assignment , transfer and any other assurance of property , and "" property "" means real or personal property of any description . Compulsory acquisition of listed buildings 109 . ( 1 ) If it appears to the Department that , in the case of a listed building to which this paragraph applies , reasonable steps are not being taken for properly preserving it , the Department may , if it considers it expedient in order to preserve the building , compulsorily acquire the building and any land comprising or contiguous or adjacent to it which appears to the Department to be required for preserving the building or its amenities , or for affording access to it , or for its proper control or management . ( 2 ) Paragraph ( 1 ) applies to any listed building , except a . a building which is the subject of a guardianship or protection order under the Historic Monuments Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1971 ; or b . a building for the time being included in a schedule of historic monuments published by the Department under that Act . ( 3 ) Where the Department desires to acquire , otherwise than by agreement , any land under paragraph ( 1 ) , the Department may make an order vesting that land in the Department ; and Articles 87 to 93 shall , with any necessary modifications , apply in relation to such acquisitions accordingly . ( 4 ) The Department shall not commence proceedings for the compulsory acquisition of a building under this Article unless at least two months previously it has served on the owner of the building , and not withdrawn , a notice ( in this Article referred to as a "" repairs notice "" ) specifying the works which the Department considers reasonably necessary for the proper preservation of the building ; and explaining the effect of this Article . ( 5 ) Where the Department has served a repairs notice , the demolition of the building thereafter shall not prevent the Department from being authorised under this Article to acquire compulsorily the site of the building , if the Department is satisfied that it would have made a vesting order in respect of the building had it not been demolished . ( 6 ) The Department may at any time withdraw a repairs notice served by it ; and if it does so , it shall forthwith give notice of the withdrawal to the person who was served with the repairs notice . SCHEDULES SCHEDULE 1 LISTED BUILDING CONSENT - APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS Form and content of applications 1 . ( 1 ) Any application to the Department for listed building consent a . shall be made in such manner as may be prescribed ; and b . shall include such particulars , and be verified by such evidence , as may be required by the regulations or by any directions given by the Department thereunder . ( 2 ) Provision shall be made by regulations for regulating the manner in which applications for listed building consent are to be dealt with by the Department and in particular a . for requiring the Department before granting or refusing listed building consent to consult with the district council for the area in which the building is situated and with such authorities or persons as may be prescribed ; b . for requiring the Department to give to any applicant for listed building consent within such time as may be prescribed such notice as may be prescribed as to the manner in which his application has been dealt with . c . Sub-paragraphs ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) ( b ) shall apply to applications to the Department for any approval of the Department required by a condition imposed on a grant of listed building consent as they apply to applications for listed building consent . Publication of notices of applications 2 . Where an application for listed building consent is made to the Department , it a . shall publish notice of the application in at least one newspaper circulating in the locality in which the building to which the application relates is situated ; and b . shall not determine the application before the expiration of 14 days from the date on which notice of the application is first published in a newspaper in pursuance of sub-paragraph ( a ) . Notification of applications to certain persons 3 . ( 1 ) Article 22 , shall , with appropriate modifications , apply to applications for listed building consent in relation to any building as it applies to applications for planning permission in relation to any land . ( 2 ) In the application of Article 22 ( 7 ) by virtue of sub-paragraph ( 1 ) for the words "" specified in a development order "" and "" form so specified "" there shall be substituted the words "" prescribed "" and "" prescribed form "" . ( 3 ) References in the following provisions of this Schedule to Article 22 are to that Article as it applies by virtue of this paragraph . Determination of application ( 4 ) ( 1 ) In determining any application for listed building consent , the Department shall take into account any representations relating to that application which are received by it before the expiration of the period of 14 days from the date on which notice of the application is first published in a newspaper . ( 2 ) Where an application for listed building consent is accompanied by such a certificate as is mentioned in Article 22 ( 1 ) ( c ) or ( d ) , the Department a . in determining the application , shall take into account any representations relating thereto which are made to it by any person who satisfies it that , in relation to the building to which the application relates , he is such a person as is described in Article 22 ( 1 ) ( c ) ; and b . shall give notice of its decision on the application to every person who made representations which it was required to take into account under head ( a ) . Consent to execute works without compliance with conditions previously attached 5 . ( 1 ) This paragraph applies to applications for listed building consent for the execution of works to a building without complying with conditions subject to which a previous listed building consent was granted . ( 2 ) Regulations may make special provision with respect to a . the form and content of such applications ; and b . the procedure to be followed in connection with such applications . ( 3 ) On such an application the Department shall consider only the question of the conditions subject to which listed building consent should be granted , and a . if it decides that listed building consent should be granted subject to conditions differing from those subject to which the previous consent was granted , or that it should be granted unconditionally , the Department shall grant listed building consent accordingly ; and b . if it decides that listed building consent should be granted subject to the same conditions as those subject to which the previous consent was granted , the Department shall refuse the application . ( 4 ) This paragraph does not apply where the application is made after the previous listed building consent has become time-expired , that is to say , the previous consent having been granted subject to a condition as to the time within which the works to which it related were to be begun , that time has expired without the works having been begun . Effect of listed building consent 6 . Without prejudice to Articles 46 and 47 , any grant of listed building consent shall ( except in so far as the consent otherwise provides ) enure for the benefit of the building and of all persons for the time being having an estate therein . Appeals 7 . ( 1 ) Where an application is made to the Department a . for listed building consent ; or b . for any approval of the Department required by a condition imposed on a grant of listed building consent , then if that consent of approval is refused or is granted subject to conditions , the applicant may by notice in writing under this paragraph appeal to the planning appeals commission . ( 2 ) Any notice under this paragraph shall be served on the planning appeals commission within six months from the date of notification of the decision to which it relates or such longer period as the commission may allow . ( 3 ) Where an appeal is brought under this paragraph from a decision of the Department , the planning appeals commission , subject to sub-paragraphs ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , may allow or dismiss the appeal or may reverse or vary any part of the decision whether the appeal relates to that part thereof or not and may deal with the application as if it had been made to it in the first instance . ( 4 ) Before determining an appeal under this Article , the planning appeals commission shall if either the applicant or the Department so desires , afford to each of them an opportunity of appearing before and being heard by the commission . ( 5 ) Subject to sub-paragraph ( 4 ) , paragraphs 2 to 5 shall apply , with any necessary modifications , in relation to an appeal to the planning appeals commission under this paragraph as they apply to an application for listed building consent . Appeal in default of planning decision 8 . Where any such application as is mentioned in paragraph 7 ( 1 ) is made to the Department , then unless within such period as may be prescribed , or within such extended period as may be agreed upon in writing between the applicant and the Department , the Department gives notice to the applicant of its decision on the application , paragraph 7 shall apply in relation to the application3 ⁄ 4 a . as if the consent or approval to which it relates had been refused by the Department ; and b . as if notification of the Department's decision had been received by the applicant at the end of the said prescribed period , or at the end of the said extended period , as the case may be . SCHEDULE 3 THE HISTORIC BUILDINGS COUNCIL 1 . The Council shall consist of a Chairman appointed by the Head of the Department and such member of other members so appointed as the Head of the Department may determine . 2 . A member of the Council shall hold office for a maximum period of three years but shall be eligible for re-appointment . 3 . The Department may pay to the Chairman and members of the Council allowances for travelling and other out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the business of the Council at such rates as the Department , with the approval of the Department of Finance and Personnel , may determine . 4 . ( 1 ) The Council shall , subject to sub-paragraph ( 4 ) , appoint such committees as the Department may determine . ( 2 ) A committee appointed under this paragraph may include persons who are not members of the Council . ( 3 ) Every member of a committee appointed under this paragraph , who , at the time of his appointment , was a member of the Council shall , if he ceases to be a member of the Council , also cease to be a member of the committee . ( 4 ) The Department may , by regulations or direction , make provision with respect to the appointment , constitution or functions of committees appointed under this paragraph . 5 . The Council may regulate its own quorum and procedure and that of its committees which shall be subject to the approval of the Department . 6 . The Council shall , at such times and in respect of such periods as the Department may direct , prepare and submit to the Department a report on its activities and the Department shall lay a copy of every such report before the Assembly . 7 . The secretary to the Council shall be such person as the Department may appoint ."	Legal
905	"Diligence and attention soon gave him the knack of it , and he strode down the street with his mouth full of harmony and his soul full of gratitude . He felt much as an astronomer feels who has discovered a new planet -- no doubt , as far as strong , deep , unalloyed pleasure is concerned , the advantage was with the boy , not the astronomer . The summer evenings were long . It was not dark , yet . Presently Tom checked his whistle . A stranger was before him -- a boy a shade larger than himself . A new-comer of any age or either sex was an im - pressive curiosity in the poor little shabby village of St. Petersburg . This boy was well dressed , too -- well dressed on a week-day . This was simply as - tounding . His cap was a dainty thing , his close - buttoned blue cloth roundabout was new and natty , and so were his pantaloons . He had shoes on -- and it was only Friday . He even wore a necktie , a bright bit of ribbon . He had a citified air about him that ate into Tom's vitals . The more Tom stared at the splendid marvel , the higher he turned up his nose at his finery and the shabbier and shabbier his own outfit seemed to him to grow . Neither boy spoke . If one moved , the other moved -- but only sidewise , in a circle ; they kept face to face and eye to eye all the time . Finally Tom said : "" I can lick you ! "" "" I 'd like to see you try it . "" "" Well , I can do it . "" "" No you ca n't , either . "" "" Yes I can . "" "" No you ca n't . "" "" I can . "" "" You ca n't . "" "" Can ! "" "" Ca n't ! "" An uncomfortable pause . Then Tom said : "" What 's your name ? "" "" ' Tis n't any of your business , maybe . "" "" Well I ' low I 'll MAKE it my business . "" "" Well why do n't you ? "" "" If you say much , I will . "" "" Much -- much -- MUCH . There now . "" "" Oh , you think you 're mighty smart , DO N'T you ? I could lick you with one hand tied behind me , if I wanted to . "" "" Well why do n't you DO it ? You SAY you can do it . "" "" Well I WILL , if you fool with me . "" "" Oh yes -- I 've seen whole families in the same fix . "" "" Smarty ! You think you 're SOME , now , DO N'T you ? Oh , what a hat ! "" "" You can lump that hat if you do n't like it . I dare you to knock it off -- and anybody that 'll take a dare will suck eggs . "" "" You 're a liar ! "" "" You 're another . "" "" You 're a fighting liar and das n't take it up . "" "" Aw -- take a walk ! "" "" Say -- if you give me much more of your sass I 'll take and bounce a rock off ' n your head . "" "" Oh , of COURSE you will . "" "" Well I WILL . "" "" Well why do n't you DO it then ? What do you keep SAYING you will for ? Why do n't you DO it ? It 's because you 're afraid . "" "" I AI N'T afraid . "" "" You are . "" "" I ai n't . "" "" You are . "" Another pause , and more eying and sidling around each other . Presently they were shoulder to shoulder . Tom said : "" Get away from here ! "" "" Go away yourself ! "" "" I wo n't . "" "" I wo n't either . "" So they stood , each with a foot placed at an angle as a brace , and both shoving with might and main , and glowering at each other with hate . But neither could get an advantage . After struggling till both were hot and flushed , each relaxed his strain with watchful caution , and Tom said : "" You 're a coward and a pup . I 'll tell my big brother on you , and he can thrash you with his little finger , and I 'll make him do it , too . "" "" What do I care for your big brother ? I 've got a brother that 's bigger than he is -- and what 's more , he can throw him over that fence , too . "" [ Both brothers were imaginary . ] "" That 's a lie . "" "" YOUR saying so do n't make it so . "" Tom drew a line in the dust with his big toe , and said : "" I dare you to step over that , and I 'll lick you till you ca n't stand up . Anybody that 'll take a dare will steal sheep . "" The new boy stepped over promptly , and said : "" Now you said you 'd do it , now let 's see you do it . "" "" Do n't you crowd me now ; you better look out . "" "" Well , you SAID you 'd do it -- why do n't you do it ? "" "" By jingo ! for two cents I WILL do it . "" The new boy took two broad coppers out of his pocket and held them out with derision . Tom struck them to the ground . In an instant both boys were rolling and tumbling in the dirt , gripped together like cats ; and for the space of a minute they tugged and tore at each other 's hair and clothes , punched and scratched each other 's nose , and covered themselves with dust and glory ."	Prose/Lyrical
68	"CHAPTER XIX At the men's end of the table the talk grew more and more animated . The colonel told them that the declaration of war had already appeared in Petersburg and that a copy , which he had himself seen , had that day been forwarded by courier to the commander in chief . "" And why the deuce are we going to fight Bonaparte ? "" remarked Shinshin . "" He has stopped Austria's cackle and I fear it will be our turn next . "" The colonel was a stout , tall , plethoric German , evidently devoted to the service and patriotically Russian . He resented Shinshin's remark . "" It is for the reasson , my goot sir , "" said he , speaking with a German accent , "" for the reasson zat ze Emperor knows zat . He declares in ze manifessto zat he can not fiew wiz indifference ze danger vreatening Russia and zat ze safety and dignity of ze Empire as vell as ze sanctity of its alliances ... "" he spoke this last word with particular emphasis as if in it lay the gist of the matter . Then with the unerring official memory that characterized him he repeated from the opening words of the manifesto : ... and the wish , which constitutes the Emperor's sole and absolute aim--to establish peace in Europe on firm foundations--has now decided him to despatch part of the army abroad and to create a new condition for the attainment of that purpose . "" Zat , my dear sir , is vy ... "" he concluded , drinking a tumbler of wine with dignity and looking to the count for approval . "" Connaissez-vous le Proverbe : * ' Jerome , Jerome , do not roam , but turn spindles at home ! ' ? "" said Shinshin , puckering his brows and smiling . "" Cela nous convient a merveille . * [ 2 ] Suvorov now--he knew what he was about ; yet they beat him a plate couture , * [ 3 ] and where are we to find Suvorovs now ? Je vous demande un peu , "" * [ 4 ] said he , continually changing from French to Russian . * Do you know the proverb ? [ 2 ] That suits us down to the ground . [ 3 ] Hollow . [ 4 ] I just ask you that . "" Ve must vight to the last tr-r-op of our plood ! "" said the colonel , thumping the table ; "" and ve must tie for our Emperor , and zen all vill pe vell . And ve must discuss it as little as po-o-ossible "" ... he dwelt particularly on the word possible ... "" as po-o-ossible , "" he ended , again turning to the count . "" Zat is how ve old hussars look at it , and zere 's an end of it ! And how do you , a young man and a young hussar , how do you judge of it ? "" he added , addressing Nicholas , who when he heard that the war was being discussed had turned from his partner with eyes and ears intent on the colonel . "" I am quite of your opinion , "" replied Nicholas , flaming up , turning his plate round and moving his wineglasses about with as much decision and desperation as though he were at that moment facing some great danger . "" I am convinced that we Russians must die or conquer , "" he concluded , conscious--as were others--after the words were uttered that his remarks were too enthusiastic and emphatic for the occasion and were therefore awkward . "" What you said just now was splendid ! "" said his partner Julie . Sonya trembled all over and blushed to her ears and behind them and down to her neck and shoulders while Nicholas was speaking . Pierre listened to the colonel's speech and nodded approvingly . "" That 's fine , "" said he . "" The young man 's a real hussar ! "" shouted the colonel , again thumping the table . "" What are you making such a noise about over there ? "" Marya Dmitrievna's deep voice suddenly inquired from the other end of the table . "" What are you thumping the table for ? "" she demanded of the hussar , "" and why are you exciting yourself ? Do you think the French are here ? "" "" I am speaking ze truce , "" replied the hussar with a smile . "" It 's all about the war , "" the count shouted down the table . "" You know my son 's going , Marya Dmitrievna ? My son is going . "" "" I have four sons in the army but still I do n't fret . It is all in God's hands . You may die in your bed or God may spare you in a battle , "" replied Marya Dmitrievna's deep voice , which easily carried the whole length of the table . "" That 's true ! "" Once more the conversations concentrated , the ladies ' at the one end and the men 's at the other . "" You wo n ' t ask , "" Natasha's little brother was saying ; "" I know you wo n ' t ask ! "" "" I will , "" replied Natasha . Her face suddenly flushed with reckless and joyous resolution . She half rose , by a glance inviting Pierre , who sat opposite , to listen to what was coming , and turning to her mother : "" Mamma ! "" rang out the clear contralto notes of her childish voice , audible the whole length of the table . "" What is it ? "" asked the countess , startled ; but seeing by her daughter's face that it was only mischief , she shook a finger at her sternly with a threatening and forbidding movement of her head . The conversation was hushed . "" Mamma ! What sweets are we going to have ? "" and Natasha's voice sounded still more firm and resolute . The countess tried to frown , but could not . Marya Dmitrievna shook her fat finger . "" Cossack ! "" she said threateningly . Most of the guests , uncertain how to regard this sally , looked at the elders . "" You had better take care ! "" said the countess . "" Mamma ! What sweets are we going to have ? "" Natasha again cried boldly , with saucy gaiety , confident that her prank would be taken in good part . Sonya and fat little Petya doubled up with laughter . "" You see ! I have asked , "" whispered Natasha to her little brother and to Pierre , glancing at him again . "" Ice pudding , but you wo n ' t get any , "" said Marya Dmitrievna . Natasha saw there was nothing to be afraid of and so she braved even Marya Dmitrievna . "" Marya Dmitrievna ! What kind of ice pudding ? I do n't like ice cream . "" "" Carrot ices . "" "" No ! What kind , Marya Dmitrievna ? What kind ? "" she almost screamed ; "" I want to know ! "" Marya Dmitrievna and the countess burst out laughing , and all the guests joined in . Everyone laughed , not at Marya Dmitrievna's answer but at the incredible boldness and smartness of this little girl who had dared to treat Marya Dmitrievna in this fashion . Natasha only desisted when she had been told that there would be pineapple ice . Before the ices , champagne was served round . The band again struck up , the count and countess kissed , and the guests , leaving their seats , went up to "" congratulate "" the countess , and reached across the table to clink glasses with the count , with the children , and with one another . Again the footmen rushed about , chairs scraped , and in the same order in which they had entered but with redder faces , the guests returned to the drawing room and to the count's study ."	Prose/Lyrical
1251	The allure of the letters page is undeniable ; it 's the one place where the public can have their voices heard . But considering that hundreds of readers are competing for this space , how can you make sure your submission stands out ? Here 's 15 tips from our letters editor to help you get published . Shorter is always better To avoid taxing the editor's patience , and that of readers ' , submissions should be kept to 250 words . While at first it may seem difficult to express your groundbreaking thoughts in only a few paragraphs , keep in mind this limit is for your benefit . The more succinctly the point is made , the better the chance the letter will be read and remembered . Letters are n't mini columns Instead of trying to frame a complex argument , the best letters make a single point , convincingly yet briefly . If you can throw in a pithy observation or humorous twist along the way , all the better . Be topical We look for letters that address stories and issues currently on the minds of readers . You may still be angry about Jim Flaherty's flip-flop on income trusts , but unless there is a new development in this story , it 's no longer an issue for the letters page . Appeal to readers' emotions Some of our best letters come from people dealing with difficult situations . Last week , for example , we carried a handful of passionate letters from parents of children with Down syndrome . Readers sent in notes saying they were moved to tears by these letters , which stimulated both the heart and the mind . Draw from your own experience Do n't pen a letter that relies on quotes from outside authorities to make its point . We want to hear what you think , not what you read elsewhere . Your letter will be edited You could very well be the world's best writer , but be assured that your carefully selected prose will be fine-tuned by Post staff -- and probably shortened -- in the interests of clarity and space . Do n't take it personally , but instead consider it a learning experience for the next missive you send in . Eschew obfuscation Which is to say you should keep the language of the letter as simple and unpretentious as possible . We need exclusivity Do n't send your letter to numerous media outlets , thinking that will increase its chance of publication . That only achieves quite the opposite effect . Letters editors across the land , seeing the note is not unique to their paper , will just delete it . Play nice Do n't attack the personal views of a columnist , reporter or fellow letter writer . Instead offer a thoughtful countervailing opinion and try to advance the debate , which will encourage other readers to join in . Know the two-week rule In an effort to allow as many readers as possible to have their say on our pages , we aim to space out contributions by letter writers by at least two weeks .	Instruction
109	"Chapter 2 Using Phone Features 2.1 Making Calls To make a call , you can either dial a number or select a contact you want to call . Note Most SIM cards are preset with a PIN ( personal identification number ) that is provided by your wireless service provider . When prompted , enter the preset PIN , then tap Enter . If you enter the wrong PIN three times , the SIM card is blocked . If this happens , you can unblock it with the PUK ( PIN Unblocking Key ) obtained from your wireless service provider . Making a call from the Phone screen To open the Phone screen , press the TALK / SEND button ( ) . The Phone's Smart Dial feature makes it quick and easy for you to place a call . When you start entering a phone number or contact name , Smart Dial automatically searches and sorts the contacts on the SIM and in Contacts , and the phone numbers in Call History ( incoming , outgoing , and missed calls ) . You can then select the desired number or contact from the filtered list . You can just enter the first letter of the name or number of a contact . Smart Dial searches for contact phone numbers and the first character of a contact name as well as from the character that appears after a space , dash , or underscore in a contact name . 46 Using Phone Features To call a phone number or contact 1 . Begin entering the first few numbers or characters by tapping the keys on the Phone keypad . As you enter numbers or letters , the Smart Dial panel displays matches found . If you tap a wrong number or character , tap to erase each subsequent digit or character . To erase the entire entry , tap and hold . 2 . Tap to close the phone keypad and to see if there are more matching numbers or contacts in the Smart Dial panel . To browse through the filtered list , flick through the list or slide your finger up or down the list slowly . Add the number to your contacts . Smart Dial panel Open the contact details . Tap to open or close the phone keypad . 3 . To call a number or contact , do one of the following : • Tap the desired phone number or contact from the list . • To call a different phone number associated with the contact , touch the contact card icon at the right side of the contact name . On the contact details screen , tap the number you want to call . Using Phone Features 47 Tips • During a call , use the VOLUME UP / DOWN button on the side of the device to adjust the phone volume . • To send a text message to a selected contact , touch , and then tap Send Message . For more information about sending text messages , see "" Text Messages "" in Chapter 6 . Making a call from a text message While you are viewing a text message on the TouchFLO 3D Messages tab or in the Inbox , you can directly call the sender of the message . 1 . While viewing the text message , press the TALK / SEND button . 2 . The Phone screen then opens , with the sender's phone number automatically filled in and ready to be dialed . To place the call , tap Talk on the Phone screen or press TALK / SEND again . Tapping a phone number that is displayed in the body of the text message also allows you to call that number . For more information about viewing text messages on the TouchFLO 3D Messages tab , see "" Messages "" in Chapter 3 . For more information about working with text messages , see "" Text Messages "" in Chapter 6 . Making a call from an e-mail message While viewing a received e-mail message , you can directly place a call to the sender of the message . Tapping a phone number that is displayed in the body of the e-mail message also allows you to call that number . Note To receive e-mail , set up your e-mail account first on your device . See "" Mail "" in Chapter 3 for instructions . From the TouchFLO 3D Mail tab or Inbox When you are browsing e-mail messages on the TouchFLO 3D Mail tab or in the Inbox , you can select a received e-mail and then directly call the sender by pressing the TALK / SEND button . To call the sender , follow the same steps in "" Making a call from a text message "" . 48 Using Phone Features For more information about browsing through e-mail on the TouchFLO 3D Mail tab , see "" Mail "" in Chapter 3 . For more information about working with e-mail messages , see Chapters 6 and 7 . From an open e-mail When you open a received e-mail , you can directly place a call to the sender . 1 . On the TouchFLO 3D Home screen , slide to the Mail tab . 2 . Swipe your finger up or down the screen to browse through received messages . Tap an e-mail message to open it . 3 . To place a call , you can do the following : • If the sender is a contact that is stored with a phone number on your device , tap Talk ( ) that is displayed to the right of the sender name to directly dial the sender's phone number . • To call the phone number that is contained in the e-mail message , tap that phone number . • Tap the To or Cc button to open the Select Contacts to Call screen , and then tap Phone to open the Phone screen . Talk button Using Phone Features 49 Tip You can also start a conference call from the Select Contacts to Call screen . See "" Starting a conference call from an e-mail "" later in this chapter for details . 4 . If you made a call to the sender or the phone number contained in the e-mail message , you can directly view the e-mail message on the Phone screen while the call is in progress . When the call is made from an e-mail message , an e-mail indicator is shown on the Keypad button . Tap this button to view the message directly on the Phone screen . Making a call from a meeting request or reminder When you receive a calendar reminder or meeting request e-mail that contains a phone number , you can tap the number to directly place the call . For example , if you are traveling and need to join a conference bridge call back in the home office , rest assured that you can join the call without delay . Appointment reminders you receive on your device will conveniently display the phone number and PIN , ready for you to dial . 50 Using Phone Features If you made a call from a meeting request e-mail , you can view the meeting details in the e-mail directly on the Phone screen while the call is in progress . An e-mail indicator is shown on the Keypad button ( ) . Tap this button to view the meeting details . Making an emergency call Tip Enter the international emergency number for your locale , and press the TALK / SEND button on your device . Additional emergency numbers may be included in your SIM card . Contact your wireless service provider for details . Making an international call 1 . Tap and hold the number 0 key on the Phone screen until the plus ( + ) sign appears . The plus ( + ) sign replaces the international prefix of the country that you are calling . 2 . Enter the full phone number you want to dial , and press the TALK / SEND button on your device . The full phone number includes the country code , area code ( without the leading zero , if any ) , and phone number . Calling voice mail Number 1 is generally reserved for your voice mail . Tap and hold this button on the Phone screen keypad to call voice mail and retrieve your voice mail messages . Using Phone Features 51 2.2 Answering and Ending Calls When you receive a phone call , the Incoming Voice Call screen will appear , allowing you to either answer or ignore the call . Accepting or rejecting an incoming voice call To answer a call Do any of the following : • • Fully slide the center button to the left of the Answer / Ignore bar . Press the TALK / SEND button . To reject a call Do any of the following : • • Fully slide the center button to the right of the Answer / Ignore bar . Press the END button . Center button To mute the ringing sound To mute the ring without rejecting the call , tap Mute Ring or press the VOLUME DOWN button . You can also put the device face down on a flat surface to mute the ringing sound . To reject a call and send a text message You can automatically send a default text message to the caller and reject the incoming voice call . Tap Send Text when you have an incoming call to send the text message . You can change the default text message by tapping Menu > Options > Advanced tab while on the Phone screen . 52 Using Phone Features Using the call functions When a call is in progress , use the call function buttons to put a call on hold , dial another contact for a phone conference , enter notes about the conversation , and more . Call functions Contact details . See "" The Contact Details screen "" in Chapter 3 . To swap between two calls Your device notifies you when you have another incoming call , and gives you the option of rejecting or accepting the call . If you are already on a call and accept the new call , you can choose to switch between the two callers . 1 . Press the TALK / SEND button to accept the second call and put the first call on hold . 2 . To switch between callers , tap or tap the dim area that shows "" On Hold "" . 3 . To end the second call and return to the first call , tap End Call or press END on your device . Using Phone Features 53 To use the speakerphone During a call , do one of the following to turn the speakerphone on or off : • • • Note Tap to turn the speakerphone on . Tap this button again to turn the speakerphone off . Placing your device face down automatically turns on the speakerphone . To turn the speakerphone off , place your device face up . You can also press and hold the TALK / SEND button during a call to turn the speakerphone on or off . The speakerphone icon ( ) appears in the title bar when the speakerphone is on . Warning ! avoid damage to your hearing , do not hold the device against your ear when To the speakerphone is on . To mute the microphone during a call Tap to turn the microphone on or off . When the microphone is turned off , the mute icon appears on the screen . To turn noise reduction on or off When you are using the earpiece and not the speakerphone during a call , you can tap Menu > Noise Reduction On to reduce ambient noise if the other party can not hear your voice clearly . When noise reduction is not needed , tap Menu > Noise Reduction Off to disable it and save battery power . You can also turn noise reduction on or off in the Phone settings . Tap Start > Settings > All Settings > Personal tab > Phone > Advanced tab and then select one of the following settings in the Reduce noise in phone calls drop-down list : • Automatically . Analyzes ambient noise only at the beginning of a connected call and applies a certain noise reduction setting based on the detected noise . However , when you move to a noisier environment during the call , your device will not further decrease noise based on your new location . 54 Using Phone Features • • Notes Always . Always reduces ambient noise during the entire course of your phone call . Never . Turns off noise reduction . • If you want to change the noise reduction setting to Automatically , make sure to do this before starting a call . • Noise reduction is not used when you have a wired or Bluetooth headset connected . To open Notes while in a call Tap , or pull out the stylus . To view or create appointments during a call Tap to open the Calendar and browse your appointments or create a new one . Close the Calendar screen to return to the Phone screen . To end a call When a call is in progress , tap End Call or press END . Using Phone Features 55 2.3 Using Call History The missed call icon icon appears in the title bar when you missed a call . Use the Call History tab to check who the caller was , or view all your dialed numbers , and received calls . To open the Call History tab , tap Call History or Missed Call on the TouchFLO 3D Home tab . Received call Dialed number Missed call Return to the People tab . Open the Call History tab of the Contact Details screen and view all calls you exchanged with the contact . Filter or clear the Call History tab . If you have a long list of calls in the Call History tab , tap Menu > Filter , and then select the type of call you want to display . 56 Using Phone Features 2.4 Speed Dial Use Speed Dial to call frequently-used numbers with a single tap . For example , if you assign a contact to the location 2 in Speed Dial , you can tap and hold the number 2 key on the Phone screen keypad to dial the contact's number . To create a Speed Dial entry 1 . On the Phone screen , tap Menu > Speed Dial . 2 . Tap Menu > New . 3 . Tap a contact , and then select the phone number of the contact that you want to the speed dial key . 4 . In Location , select an available key to use as the speed dial key , then tap OK . Tip To delete a Speed Dial entry , in the Speed Dial list , tap and hold the desired entry , and then tap Delete . 2.5 Video Call Your device lets you make video calls when you are within a 3G network coverage area . You need to use a 3G-enabled SIM card and activate the video calling service on your call plan to make video calls . Making a video call 1 . On the Phone screen , tap to switch to video call mode . 2 . Begin entering the first few digits of the phone number or the first few letters of the contact name you want to call . You can also tap to close the phone keypad so you can simply finger-scroll and select from the list of contacts and phone numbers . 3 . After entering or selecting a phone number or contact name , tap the Video Call button at the bottom of the screen . Using Phone Features 57 4 . When connected , tap the Camera button , and then wait for the called party's image to appear on the Phone screen . Notes • The signal strength may influence the quality of streaming images . • The speakerphone automatically turns on when a video call is established . • If the video call is unsuccessful , a message pops up asking you if you want to try again , make a voice call instead , or send an SMS / MMS message . Changing the video call settings 1 While on a video call , you can change certain settings such as the size and brightness of the image , and the camera to use . Displays your image and the other party's image , depending on the selected Swap View setting . Turns the camera on or off . When the camera is turned off , the image displayed depends on the Video Call options you have set . See "" To change the video call options "" for details . Switches between the Main ( back ) and Second ( front ) camera . Switches between 2 view options . You can choose to have the other party's image small or large . Displays the phone number or contact name and call timer . 2 1 3 5 2 3 4 4 5 58 Using Phone Features To adjust the brightness 1 . During a video call , tap Menu > Brightness . A brightness bar appears on the screen . 2 . Drag the slider to the right to increase the brightness or to the left to decrease the brightness of the live image . Note You can not adjust the brightness for a still image . To change the video call options On the Phone screen , or on the screen of the ongoing video call , tap Menu > Video Call Options and set the following : General tab • Show still image . Select the image you want to display to the other party when you turn off the camera . • Preset ( female ) . Displays a female picture . • Preset ( male ) . Displays a male picture . • Custom image . Use an image file as your display picture . When this option is selected , tap the Browse button ( ) to select an image file . • Last video frame . Use the last video frame before you stopped the camera as your display image . • Video screen preference . Choose the default image sizes to display on your device . • Camera options : • Flip the 2nd Camera video . Select this option if you are going to show a text document to the other party using the second camera . • Switch camera off when answering video call / Switch camera off when making video call . Display a still image instead of live video to the other party when you answer or make a video call . The image displayed is the one selected in Show still image . Using Phone Features 59 • Display info : • Show call timer . Display the elapsed call time during a call . • Show phone number or name . Display the other party's phone number or name during a call . Services tab To set up further calling options for Video Call , tap the Services tab . Accepting or rejecting an incoming video call When you receive a video call , the Incoming Video Call screen appears . Refer to the "" Accepting or rejecting an incoming voice call "" section earlier in this chapter for details on how to accept or reject an incoming video call , mute the ringing sound , and more . 2.6 Straight TalkTM Your device features Straight TalkTM , a technology that integrates messaging , voice , and conference calling , allowing you to seamlessly transition from a message to a single call or multi-party conference call . With dual microphone and speaker that enhance voice quality and reduce noise , Straight Talk turns your device into a conference room speakerphone system . Note Make sure your SIM card is enabled with conference calling service . Contact your wireless service provider for details . This section shows how to make a conference call and use Straight Talk to transition from e-mail to the conference call . For more information about using Straight Talk to switch from a message to a voice call , see "" Making a call from a text message "" , "" Making a call from an e-mail message "" , and "" Making a call from a meeting request or reminder "" earlier in this chapter . 60 Using Phone Features Starting a conference call from the Phone screen There are two ways to start a conference call from the Phone screen . You can choose your participants first before starting the conference call . You can also directly dial calls and add each connected call to the conference call . To select participants and start a conference call 1 . Press the TALK / SEND button to open the Phone screen . 2 . Tap to switch the Phone screen to conference mode . 3 . Tap to close the phone keypad so you can finger-scroll and select from contacts or phone numbers . 4 . Select conference call participants by selecting the check boxes of contacts or phone numbers , and then tap Conference . The participants list is then displayed . Tap these buttons if you want to choose from other stored phone numbers and use them to call the participants . Tip To remove a participant before starting the conference call , tap Keypad and clear the check box of this participant . Using Phone Features 61 5 . Slide open the hardware keyboard so that your device will display the Conference Room screen . This is an intuitive interface that makes conference calls much easier and simpler . You can simply tap photos or buttons on the screen to dial participants , join them to your conference call , and more . 6 . Tap the photo of the first participant to dial the first call . 7 . When the first call is connected , tap the photo of the second participant to dial the second call . The first call is automatically put on hold . 8 . When the second call is connected , tap the Join button ( conference call and then dial the next participant . ) to add it to the Repeat this same process until all participants are added and connected to the conference call . Tip If you prefer to do the conference call in portrait view , do not slide open the hardware keyboard . When in portrait view , tap the Talk button ( ) to dial each participant , and then tap the Join button ( ) to add the second call and each subsequent call to the conference . To directly dial and add each participant to the conference call 1 . Press the TALK / SEND button to open the Phone screen . 2 . Make the call to the first participant . See "" Making a call from the Phone screen "" for instructions . 3 . When the first call is connected , tap and make the call to the second participant . The first call is put on hold when you dial the second call . 4 . When the second call is connected , tap to start the conference call . 62 Using Phone Features 5 . Slide open the hardware keyboard so that your device will display the Conference Room screen . 6 . To add another participant , tap Add Call and make the next call . When this call is connected , tap the Join button ( ) to add it to the conference call . Repeat this same process for each subsequent call that you add to the conference call . Tip If you prefer to do the conference call in portrait view , do not slide open the hardware keyboard . When in portrait view , tap Invite participants to dial a new call , and then tap the Join button ( ) to add the connected call to the conference . Managing the conference call While a conference call is in progress , you can do the following : To manage the conference call in landscape view To talk in private with a participant and put the others in the conference call on hold , tap the participant's photo and then tap Private . To swap between a private call and the conference call , tap the dim area or tap Swap . Tap Join to add a private call back to the conference call . Tap End Call to end a private call and return to the conference call . Using Phone Features 63 To manage the conference call in portrait view Tap a participant from the conference call and then tap one of these buttons : View contact details . Talk in private to this participant only and put the others in the conference call on hold . End the call with this participant . To swap between a private call and the conference call , tap the dim area that shows "" On Hold "" or tap Menu > Swap . 64 Using Phone Features To turn on the speakerphone during a conference call While a call or conference call is in progress , you can turn on the speakerphone by simply placing your device face down . Your device provides crystal-clear sound quality and voice reception during conference calls . When the speakerphone is on , your device also enables the dual microphone to enhance your voice quality and reduce noise . When you need to temporarily mute the dual microphone so that the conference call participants will not hear you , press the MUTE button . Press it again to unmute . To end the conference call Tap End Call or press END . Dual microphone MUTE Dual speaker Starting a conference call from an e-mail Note From a received e-mail message , you can directly start a conference call with the sender and other recipients of the e-mail . To receive e-mail , set up your e-mail account first on your device . See "" Mail "" in Chapter 3 for instructions . 1 . On the TouchFLO 3D Home screen , slide to the Mail tab . 2 . Swipe your finger up or down the screen to browse through received messages . Tap an e-mail message to open it . 3 . Tap the To or Cc button to open the Select Contacts to Call screen . Using Phone Features 65 4 . Select the check boxes of the sender and recipients who you want to join in your conference call and then tap Conference . Tap here to close or expand the "" To "" or "" Cc "" recipient list . Select the check boxes of the participants . Tap Conference when you are ready to start the conference call . 5 . Do steps 5 to 7 in "" To select participants and start a conference call "" to dial each participant and add each connected call to your conference call . 6 . To manage your conference call , such as invite more participants , end the conference call , and more , see "" Managing the conference call "" in this chapter for details . 66 Using Phone Features 2.7 Turning the Phone Function On and Off In many countries , you are required by law to turn off the phone while on board an aircraft . To enable or disable the phone function 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap Communications . 2 . Tap the OFF / ON slider at the right side of the Phone option to enable or disable the phone function . To enable or disable Airplane Mode Another way to turn off the phone function is to switch your device to Airplane Mode . When you enable Airplane Mode , all wireless radios on your device are turned off , including the phone function , Bluetooth , and Wi-Fi . 1 . Tap Start > Settings , and then tap Communications 2 . Tap Airplane Mode to enable or disable Airplane Mode . When you disable Airplane Mode , the phone function is turned back on and the previous state of Bluetooth and Wi-Fi are restored ."	Instruction
957	How do I test my robots . txt file ? You can use the robots . txt analysis tool in Google Sitemaps to : Check specific URLs to see if your robots . txt file allows or blocks them . See if Googlebot had trouble parsing any lines in your robots . txt file . Test changes to your robots . txt file . If you do n't currently use a robots . txt file , you can create one and then test it with the tool before you upload it to your site . the robots . txt analysis tool displays the text of your cached robots . txt file . You can enter a list of URLs and check to make sure that file restricts or allows access as you expect . You can also modify the displayed robots . txt file and then enter a list of URLs to check so that you can see how changes to your robots . txt file would change Googlebot's access to specific pages . Once you are happy with your revised robots . txt file , make the changes on the version on your site . Note that it may take up to a day for the Googlebot to retrieve the latest version . You can always check when we last downloaded your robots . txt file at the top of the robots . txt analysis page . You may also be interested in ... How do I use the robots . txt file analysis tool ? What do the robots . txt file analysis results means ? Why did the robots . txt analysis tool display a syntax not understood error ?	Instruction
802	Stem cells are notable for being fecund -- they continually generate new cells . So too do cancer cells , however . Indeed , stem cells and cancer cells are beginning to seem very close relations . In one recent study , adult stem cells ( those obtained from mature animals , rather than early embryos ) were found to develop into tumour cell lines when grown in the laboratory . A team from Spain collected stem cells from fat tissue and grew them in culture for eight months . Some developed into cells that generated cancers when injected into animals . In a second study , a Danish team found that permanently activating telomerase in similar stem cells also made them cancerous . Telomerase protects the ends of chromosomes , which usually wear away at every cell division . Telomerase can prolong the lifespan of a cultured cell line , but leaves it vulnerable to uncontrolled proliferation . Studies of certain cells obtained from breast cancers are also disturbing . These cells can seed new breast cancers , and look very much like stem cells . Finally , Carla Bender Kim and colleagues recently identified a ' pocket ' in the adult mouse lung containing stem cells . As well as providing new lung epithelial cells , these cells can be triggered to proliferate by cancer-causing mutations . These and other studies highlight the perils as well as the potential of cellular immortality . They also raise questions about the use of adult stem cells in therapy . Rubio D et al. Spontaneous human adult stem cell transformation . Cancer Res 2005 ; 65 ( 8 ) : 3035--9 . Burns JS et al. Tumorigenic heterogeneity in cancer stem cells evolved from long-term cultures of telomerase-immortalized human mesenchymal stem cells . Cancer Res 2005 ; 65 ( 8 ) : 3126--35 . Ponti D et al. Isolation and in vitro propagation of tumorigenic breast cancer cells with stem / progenitor cell properties . Cancer Res 2005 ; 65 ( 13 ) : 5506--11 . Bender Kim CF et al. Identification of bronchioalveolar stem cells in normal lung and lung cancer . Cell 2005 ; 121 ( 6 ) : 823--35 . Article appears in the following Wellcome Science subjects / article types Cancer | North America | Stem cells and cloning	Information/Explanation
1538	"While a great idea is a reward in and of itself , the NATSO Foundation is going to award $ 500 to the truckstop or travel plaza operator that shares the best great idea during the Great Ideas ! for Independent Operators Session at The NATSO Show 2014 . Tom Heinz , chairman of The NATSO Foundation and president of Coffee Cup Fuel Stop , said he hopes the award will add energy to the already exciting event and also encourage operators to think through their best ideas ahead of time . "" Best ideas are often not immediately quantifiable or are impossible for operators to measure , so they may not realize just how great they are until they take time to think them through , "" he said . "" We want operators or their staff to think about successful things they 're doing and come prepared to share for a chance to win . "" The Great Ideas ! for Independent Operators Session has been designed with independent owners and operators in mind and serves as an interactive platform where operators join together to collaborate and uncover new solutions and business opportunities that can improve their operations . "" Most great ideas take a long time to evolve and they often need to collide with other ideas , which is why the Great Ideas ! Session is the perfect venue for those in the travel plaza industry to find their next best practice , "" Heinz said . "" There are all kinds of little , doable things in our operations that could be made a little bit better , which will make the customers' experiences better , "" Heinz said . "" This session encourages all of us to think through every experience a customer goes through and ways in which we can make it better . Being able to bounce those ideas off of each other is invaluable . "" Paragon Solutions , Fort Worth , Texas , is more than a retail design firm . Sure , they can design and develop a travel plaza from a bare piece of ground all the way to completion , but they can also help operators re-make certain sections of their stores , renovate to boost energy efficiency and create a solid brand . "" We can go in and develop an over reaching brand for the entire facility or branding for specific areas of the store , "" said Michael Lawshe , president of Paragon Solutions . Branding can be key for the nation's truckstop and travel plaza operators , but all too often business owners get complacent with the messages their sending customers . "" Sometimes they 're still doing the same thing they did last year , five years ago or ten years ago . Our customers are changing and we have to change with them , "" Lawshe said . "" We get so consumed with our day-to-day operational challenges , that we do n't think big picture . "" Lawshe said that often times , operators avoid addressing their brand simply because they do n't know what to do . To help them get past that , Lawshe is going to sit down with operators face-to-face at The Human Library at The NATSO Show 2014 . Lawshe said he is looking forward to talking with operators about branding , ways to boost energy efficiency or ways to improve the design in specific areas of the location . "" We can look over the design in any profit center – whether it is the layout of the overall design or refreshing the restaurant , "" he said . Operators planning to meet with Lawshe should bring photos of the areas they plan to discuss , a copy of their overall layout design and financial statement . "" A financial statement is like acres of diamonds . You can dig into it and analyze it . Then you combine that information with the physical plant to analyze the issue , "" he said . Preparing to be away from work for two-and-a-half days is no small feat . To help operators prepare , we rounded up some of the best advice on the web on how to prepare to be out of the office . 6 Simple Steps To Master Productivity On The Road Breanna Wilson asserts in a recent Fast Company article that staying productive when you 're on the road is easier than you think when you follow her simple rules of thumb . For example , she encourages business travelers to use Google Drive and other cloud-technologies such as Dropbox to store files that you need easy access to . "" Save yourself time and energy by eliminating the fear of forgetting or losing crucial files when you 're on the road , "" she writes . Plan for Out of Office Time Alyssa Gregory offers tips on how to plan for out of office time on About.com ' s Small Business Information . She says , "" In the weeks leading up to the event , start getting work done ahead of time so it 's easier to disconnect for a day or two . If there are times during the conference you know you will need to be working , plan for them in advance and work them into your personal conference schedule . "" She also encourages readers to assign an employee to be responsible while you are out . Subordinates Can Step Up Afraid to let go of the reins while you are away ? Perhaps this tip from Monster Career Advice will help calm your nerves . "" Remember the first time you had to make a decision while your boss was away ? Without your boss as a safety net , you experienced more growth than you would have otherwise . Whether you have direct reports or are part of a cross-functional effort , you give others the opportunity to take the reins if you do n't work while you 're on vacation . This hands-off approach benefits everyone . "" For truckstop and travel plaza operators , theft within their locations is inevitable . Even worse , the greatest losses come from employees and vendors . However , Darren Schulte , NATSO's vice president of membership , said operators can take steps to minimize theft and prevent losses . Schulte shared his insights on shrink loss prevention at The NATSO Show in Savannah , Ga. Schulte advised operators to pay attention to their employees and address even the smallest theft , such as an employee who takes a drink or snack without paying . Inventory audits and cash audits can also help prevent losses , Schulte said . He recommends operators and managers show up unannounced , pull the till , count it and make sure it balances . Employers should also watch for void or no-sale rings on the cash register . "" When you see that , there is a good chance that money is coming out and not going in , "" Schulte said . Retailers can also invest in systems that will send real-time information on no-sales so managers can visit the sales floor to see what is going on . If an inventory or cash audit reveals a problem , Schulte said operators and managers should address the situation directly with employees through interviews . "" Sit down with each employee and ask them questions . Are you aware of our shrink ? Have you seen anything ? Give them an opportunity to share to you what they 've seen . You 'll be surprised at what you 'll learn and how much better your operations will run , "" Schulte said . "" This is your store and your money , you have to figure out what happened . "" To prevent vendor loss , Schulte suggests managers be present when vendors check in , only allow one vendor at a time on the sales floor and review invoices carefully , especially those that have high returns . Managers should also look at the inventory as it comes in . "" Open up the boxes and look in each one . The smartest thing that beer vendor will do is take one quart out of each case , make their own case and glue up the box . Your vendors stock most of your coolers , so you 're never going to know , "" he said . In addition , retailers should not allow vendors to count the product themselves during the check-in process and never allow products to be counted in multiples , and vendors should flatten their boxes before they leave ."	Promotion
1449	"Sometimes it 's easy to overlook that your distribution center is called upon to operate as a two-way street : Product heads out in one direction , but it also can shift into reverse and come back to you . One of the biggest problems with this boomerang effect is the time it takes for distribution centers to figure out what to do with returned goods . After all , the primary goal is to get goods out of the door . Hence , reverse logistics . As fast as you can ship out a product , it can be headed right back to you . The better prepared you are to handle such situations , the more smoothly your distribution center will function . The fact that many businesses are willing to pay someone else to take care of this tells you it 's a valuable service . And if someone 's willing to pay an outsider to come in and do it , why not do it yourself and save the money ? Time is the single greatest enemy to handling reverse logistics . Processes grind to a halt and distribution center employees are forced to research and make decisions for each item or product that comes back in your door . There 's a two-step solution for this : Identify the categories / reasons for return , and There are seven core reasons for returns : manufacturing problem service problem recalls end-of-life obsolete end-of-use problem under warranty Once you 've determined the core cause for return , it 's easier to drop it into one of six "" asset recovery disposition "" buckets : restock to resell refurbish destroy repackage to resell sell to secondary market , and return to manufacturer . Once your distribution center has developed working criteria for each disposition , it 's much easier for any staffer to handle returns . You 'll save time , decrease frustration , and get returned goods on the way to where they 're supposed to be . One Response to "" 7 ways inventory comes back to bite you "" Because it 's cheaper , and doing it yourself DOES N'T save money . Like everyone else , we have been feeling the crunch of the economy , and we were surprised to find out that using a third party logistics company saves dollars and increases reliability . The truth is that if your companies specialty is n't warehousing and transportation , it is cheaper to allow someone handle it that specializes in that field . They do it more efficiently and reliably . The bottom line is that if a company has years of experience handling this task for many different types of companies , they bring a lot more experience and lessons learned to the table . We have started using a company called Ceva Logistics , that has literally saved our company and our jobs . And there are several other companies that perform similar duties ."	Promotion
927	"If Love Were All ! It was night , and I was in the cell wherein the King had lain in the Castle of Zenda . The great pipe that Rupert of Hentzau had nicknamed "" Jacob's Ladder "" was gone , and the lights in the room across the moat twinkled in the darkness . All was still ; the din and clash of strife were gone . I had spent the day hidden in the forest , from the time when Fritz had led me off , leaving Sapt with the princess . Under cover of dusk , muffled up , I had been brought to the Castle and lodged where I now lay . Though three men had died there – two of them by my hand – I was not troubled by ghosts . I had thrown myself on a pallet by the window , and was looking out on the black water ; Johann , the keeper , still pale from his wound , but not much hurt besides , had brought me supper . He told me that the King was doing well , that he had seen the princess ; that she and he , Sapt and Fritz , had been long together . Marshal Strakencz was gone to Strelsau ; Black Michael lay in his coffin , and Antoinette de Mauban watched by him ; had I not heard , from the chapel , priests singing mass for him ? Outside there were strange rumours afloat . Some said that the prisoner of Zenda was dead ; some , that he had vanished yet alive ; some , that he was a friend who had served the King well in some adventure in England ; others , that he had discovered the Duke's plots , and had therefore been kidnapped by him . One or two shrewd fellows shook their heads and said only that they would say nothing , but they had suspicions that more was to be known than was known , if Colonel Sapt would tell all he knew . Thus Johann chattered till I sent him away and lay there alone , thinking , not of the future , but – as a man is wont to do when stirring things have happened to him – rehearsing the events of the past weeks , and wondering how strangely they had fallen out . And above me , in the stillness of the night , I heard the standards flapping against their poles , for Black Michael's banner hung there half-mast high , and above it the royal flag of Ruritania , floating for one night more over my head . Habit grows so quick , that only by an effort did I recollect that it floated no longer for me . Presently Fritz von Tarlenheim came into the room . I was standing then by the window ; the glass was opened , and I was idly fingering the cement which clung to the masonry where "" Jacob's Ladder "" had been . He told me briefly that the King wanted me , and together we crossed the drawbridge and entered the room that had been Black Michael's . The King was lying there in bed ; our doctor from Tarlenheim was in attendance on him , and whispered to me that my visit must be brief . The King held out his hand and shook mine . Fritz and the doctor withdrew to the window . I took the King's ring from my finger and placed it on his . "" I have tried not to dishonour it , sire , "" said I. "" I ca n't talk much to you , "" he said , in a weak voice . "" I have had a great fight with Sapt and the Marshal – for we have told the Marshal everything . I wanted to take you to Strelsau and keep you with me , and tell everyone of what you had done ; and you would have been my best and nearest friend , Cousin Rudolf . But they tell me I must not , and that the secret must be kept – if kept it can be . "" "" They are right , sire . Let me go . My work here is done . "" "" Yes , it is done , as no man but you could have done it . When they see me again , I shall have my beard on ; I shall – yes , faith , I shall be wasted with sickness . They will not wonder that the King looks changed in face . Cousin , I shall try to let them find him changed in nothing else . You have shown me how to play the King . "" "" Sire , "" said I. "" I can take no praise from you . It is by the narrowest grace of God that I was not a worse traitor than your brother . "" He turned inquiring eyes on me ; but a sick man shrinks from puzzles , and he had no strength to question me . His glance fell on Flavia's ring , which I wore . I thought he would question me about it ; but , after fingering it idly , he let his head fall on his pillow . "" I do n't know when I shall see you again , "" he said faintly , almost listlessly . "" If I can ever serve you again , sire , "" I answered . His eyelids closed . Fritz came with the doctor . I kissed the King's hand , and let Fritz lead me away . I have never seen the King since . Outside , Fritz turned , not to the right , back towards the drawbridge , but to the left , and without speaking led me upstairs , through a handsome corridor in the chateau . "" Where are we going ? "" I asked . Looking away from me , Fritz answered : "" She has sent for you . When it is over , come back to the bridge . I 'll wait for you there . "" "" What does she want ? "" said I , breathing quickly . He shook his head . "" Does she know everything ? "" "" Yes , everything . "" He opened a door , and gently pushing me in , closed it behind me . I found myself in a drawing-room , small and richly furnished . At first I thought that I was alone , for the light that came from a pair of shaded candles on the mantelpiece was very dim . But presently I discerned a woman's figure standing by the window . I knew it was the princess , and I walked up to her , fell on one knee , and carried the hand that hung by her side to my lips . She neither moved nor spoke . I rose to my feet , and , piercing the gloom with my eager eyes , saw her pale face and the gleam of her hair , and before I knew , I spoke softly : "" Flavia ! "" She trembled a little , and looked round . Then she darted to me , taking hold of me . "" Do n't stand , do n't stand ! No , you must n't ! You 're hurt ! Sit down – here , here ! "" She made me sit on a sofa , and put her hand on my forehead . "" How hot your head is , "" she said , sinking on her knees by me . Then she laid her head against me , and I heard her murmur : "" My darling , how hot your head is ! "" Somehow love gives even to a dull man the knowledge of his lover's heart . I had come to humble myself and pray pardon for my presumption ; but what I said now was : "" I love you with all my heart and soul ! "" For what troubled and shamed her ? Not her love for me , but the fear that I had counterfeited the lover as I had acted the King , and taken her kisses with a smothered smile . "" With all my life and heart , "" said I , as she clung to me . "" Always , from the first moment I saw you in the Cathedral ! There has been but one woman in the world to me – and there will be no other . But God forgive me the wrong I 've done you ! "" "" They made you do it ! "" she said quickly ; and she added , raising her head and looking in my eyes : "" It might have made no difference if I 'd known it . It was always you , never the King ! "" "" I meant to tell you , "" said I. "" I was going to on the night of the ball in Strelsau , when Sapt interrupted me . After that , I could n't – I could n't risk losing you before – before – I must ! My darling , for you I nearly left the King to die ! "" "" I know , I know ! What are we to do now , Rudolf ? "" I put my arm round her and held her up while I said : "" I am going away tonight . "" "" Ah , no , no ! "" she cried . "" Not tonight ! "" "" I must go tonight , before more people have seen me . And how would you have me stay , sweetheart , except – ? "" "" If I could come with you ! "" she whispered very low . "" My God ! "" said I roughly , "" do n't talk about that ! "" and I thrust her a little back from me . "" Why not ? I love you . You are as good a gentleman as the King ! "" Then I was false to all that I should have held by . For I caught her in my arms and prayed her , in words that I will not write , to come with me , daring all Ruritania to take her from me . And for a while she listened , with wondering , dazzled eyes . But as her eyes looked on me , I grew ashamed , and my voice died away in broken murmurs and stammerings , and at last I was silent . She drew herself away from me and stood against the wall , while I sat on the edge of the sofa , trembling in every limb , knowing what I had done – loathing it , obstinate not to undo it . So we rested a long time . "" I am mad ! "" I said sullenly . "" I love your madness , dear , "" she answered . Her face was away from me , but I caught the sparkle of a tear on her cheek . I clutched the sofa with my hand and held myself there . "" Is love the only thing ? "" she asked , in low , sweet tones that seemed to bring a calm even to my wrung heart . "" If love were the only thing , I would follow you – in rags , if need be – to the world's end ; for you hold my heart in the hollow of your hand ! But is love the only thing ? "" I made no answer . It gives me shame now to think that I would not help her . She came near me and laid her hand on my shoulder . I put my hand up and held hers . "" I know people write and talk as if it were . Perhaps , for some , Fate lets it be . Ah , if I were one of them ! But if love had been the only thing , you would have let the King die in his cell . "" I kissed her hand . "" Honour binds a woman too , Rudolf . My honour lies in being true to my country and my House . I do n't know why God has let me love you ; but I know that I must stay . "" Still I said nothing ; and she , pausing a while , then went on : "" Your ring will always be on my finger , your heart in my heart , the touch of your lips on mine . But you must go and I must stay . Perhaps I must do what it kills me to think of doing . "" I knew what she meant , and a shiver ran through me . But I could not utterly fail her . I rose and took her hand . "" Do what you will , or what you must , "" I said . "" I think God shows His purposes to such as you . My part is lighter ; for your ring shall be on my finger and your heart in mine , and no touch save of your lips will ever be on mine . So , may God comfort you , my darling ! "" There struck on our ears the sound of singing . The priests in the chapel were singing masses for the souls of those who lay dead . They seemed to chant a requiem over our buried joy , to pray forgiveness for our love that would not die . The soft , sweet , pitiful music rose and fell as we stood opposite one another , her hands in mine . "" My queen and my beauty ! "" said I. "" My lover and true knight ! "" she said . "" Perhaps we shall never see one another again . Kiss me , my dear , and go ! "" I kissed her as she bade me ; but at the last she clung to me , whispering nothing but my name , and that over and over again – and again – and again ; and then I left her . Rapidly I walked down to the bridge . Sapt and Fritz were waiting for me . Under their directions I changed my dress , and muffling my face , as I had done more than once before , I mounted with them at the door of the Castle , and we three rode through the night and on to the breaking day , and found ourselves at a little roadside station just over the border of Ruritania . The train was not quite due , and I walked with them in a meadow by a little brook while we waited for it . They promised to send me all news ; they overwhelmed me with kindness – even old Sapt was touched to gentleness , while Fritz was half unmanned . I listened in a kind of dream to all they said . "" Rudolf ! Rudolf ! Rudolf ! "" still rang in my ears – a burden of sorrow and of love . At last they saw that I could not heed them , and we walked up and down in silence , till Fritz touched me on the arm , and I saw , a mile or more away , the blue smoke of the train . Then I held out a hand to each of them . "" We are all but half-men this morning , "" said I , smiling . "" But we have been men , eh , Sapt and Fritz , old friends ? We have run a good course between us . "" "" We have defeated traitors and set the King firm on his throne , "" said Sapt . Then Fritz von Tarlenheim suddenly , before I could discern his purpose or stay him , uncovered his head and bent as he used to do , and kissed my hand ; and as I snatched it away , he said , trying to laugh : "" Heaven does n't always make the right men kings ! "" Old Sapt twisted his mouth as he wrung my hand . "" The devil has his share in most things , "" said he . The people at the station looked curiously at the tall man with the muffled face , but we took no notice of their glances . I stood with my two friends and waited till the train came up to us . Then we shook hands again , saying nothing ; and both this time – and , indeed , from old Sapt it seemed strange – bared their heads , and so stood still till the train bore me away from their sight . So that it was thought some great man travelled privately for his pleasure from the little station that morning ; whereas , in truth it was only I , Rudolf Rassendyll , an English gentleman , a cadet of a good house , but a man of no wealth nor position , nor of much rank . They would have been disappointed to know that . Yet had they known all they would have looked more curiously still . For , be I what I might now , I had been for three months a King , which , if not a thing to be proud of , is at least an experience to have undergone . Doubtless I should have thought more of it , had there not echoed through the air , from the towers of Zenda that we were leaving far away , into my ears and into my heart the cry of a woman's love – "" Rudolf ! Rudolf ! Rudolf ! "" Hark ! I hear it now !"	Prose/Lyrical
1568	Last-minute solution . Even if it 's something as simple as cooking her a nice supper , do plan at least a day ahead ( today ! ) and do n't count on the miracle of last-minute extravaganza party invite . Please , get booze before the eve – Dial-a-Bottle is very busy on the 31st . Do n't bar hop . Again , spontaneity is great any other time , on New Year's it may be deadly . All spontaneity will ensure is that she will be very angry and very cold standing in her high heels in a snow bank , waiting outside of the club in the middle of the longest lineup in the universe ( that 's any lineup ) . Do n't chase parties . If a party sucks mildly do n't think you 'll necessarily find a better time at the next place . Wait till past midnight , plant a big , wet kiss on her lips and then suggest leaving . She 'd prefer that than celebrating in the cab in the middle of traffic . Night on the town . If you 're on a budget , go somewhere inexpensive for a celebratory dinner ( try to call around for cancelled reservations – this year , there 's still room and last-minute deals ) , followed up by a walk amongst sparkly , drunken crowds up to your town's city hall to check out the New Year's Eve countdown with the peasants .	Instruction
1021	"TERMS OF USE This site is made available for public access strictly subject to the terms below . If you do not accept the terms below , you may not access the site . 1 . This site is owned by and operated on behalf of Jewson , a trading name for Jewson Ltd ( "" the Company "" ) , a company registered in England & Wales under company number 348407 and with its registered office at Aldwych House , 81 Aldwych , London , WC2B 4HQ . Any correspondence regarding this site should be addressed to the webmaster at : customer.services@jewson.co.uk , or by phone on 024 7643 8400 . 2 . Copyright in the visual design and the coding for this site is owned by the Company or has been licensed to the Company . No part of the site may be reproduced in any form without the Company's prior written consent . You may print materials from the Site only for your personal use . 3 . The Site is for use only by customers or prospective customers of the Company in the United Kingdom . Accordingly , the site is not intended to provide guidance or information for any persons proposing to invest in the Company or transact with the Company as a supplier ; and the Site may not be used in any way by competitors of the Company . 4 . Any links to this site may be made only to the home page and no part of this site may be viewed within frames of a third party site . Any other links to this site are prohibited . 5 . The information on this Site is intended to provide general information about the Company and its products and services . It is not intended to facilitate online trade . Some of the information on the site may not be completely up to date , and information about goods or services may have been superseded . Customer should obtain confirmation of any information before relying upon this site when purchasing the Company's goods or services . USE OF THIS SITE IS PERMITTED ON THE BASIS THAT THE COMPANY WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE WHATSOEVER AND HOWSOEVER CAUSED ( EVEN IF CAUSED BY THE COMPANY'S NEGLIGENCE ) ARISING OUT OF USE OF THIS SITE . HOWEVER , NOTHING IN THESE TERMS OF USE SHALL RESTRICT THE COMPANY'S LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY CAUSED BY ITS NEGLIGENCE , FRAUD BY THE COMPANY , OR FOR FRAUDULENT MISREPRESENTATIONS . 6 . From time to time , this site may include links to other web sites . The linked sites may not be operated by the Company and accordingly the Company does not endorse the contents , views or products of the linked sites , and neither does the Company accept any responsibility for use of the linked sites . Users are advised to use linked sites with caution and with due regard to any terms of use on those sites . 7 . Use of this site shall be subject to the laws of England and Wales and any disputes or claims in connection with this site shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts in England and Wales ."	Legal
918	"Ward Round "" No "" , he says , "" No , I can not be bothered . I can not be bothered with any more stupid patients ! "" He turns , and walks off . Nothing then could stop her , not her status as a junior nurse , not his as a consultant , not even the probable loss of her career . She follows the consultant into the corridor and confronts him . "" I do n't care who you are , no-one talks to our patients like that ! "" She braces herself . His response is swift and unimpeded - he tells her exactly what he thinks : that she is right . Together , they go back onto the ward , and apologise to the patient ."	Prose/Lyrical
187	"24 August 2000 Original : ENGLISH Held at the Palais des Nations , Geneva , on Thursday , 24 August 2000 , at 10.10 a . m . President : Mr. Celso Amorim ( Brazil ) The PRESIDENT : I declare open the 857th plenary meeting of the Conference . Distinguished delegates , we have learned with deep sorrow the tragic death of the crew members of the Russian nuclear submarine Kursk . I am sure that you all join me in extending our deep sympathy and condolences to the delegation of the Russian Federation on this sad occasion . I would kindly request our Russian colleague to convey these sentiments to his Government and to the bereaved families , as well as to the whole Russian people . I should like to extend a warm welcome , on behalf of all of us , to the new representative of Romania , Ambassador Anda-Cristina Filip and assure her of our full cooperation and support . There is no speaker inscribed on my list for today . Does any delegation wish to take the floor at this stage ? Japan , you have the floor , sir . Mr. NORBURU ( Japan ) : With your indulgence , Mr. President , I should like to take this opportunity to mention briefly how much our delegation appreciates all the efforts being made by our Brazilian President to reach an agreement on the programme of work for the Conference on Disarmament . At the same time , we must also express our sincere recognition of his predecessors , whose efforts were also most worthy of note . Ambassador Amorim has already eloquently demonstrated how far a President can push all delegations forward in seeking a solution to the apparently impossible problem faced by the Conference on Disarmament . Ambassador Amorim has been conducting this task with perseverance , wisdom and diplomatic skills which my delegation highly esteems , and his work will stand as a textbook case of good chairmanship . What Ambassador Amorim has been able to achieve so far is remarkable , and we must all be very grateful that he intends to continue working until the last moment . Mr. President , it may be easy for people like us who are constantly exposed to the difficulties of international relations to understand why we have not yet been able to make progress in the Conference on Disarmament . This may not , however , hold true for the rest of society outside our diplomatic realm , who are diligently watching us and expecting real outcomes from us . This is reason enough for us not to abandon the possibility of agreeing on a programme of work , even at this late stage of this year's session of the Conference on Disarmament . We must carry on with the work this week and during the remaining four weeks of this session . Mr. President , many delegations , including mine , consider extremely important all the efforts being made to accomplish progress in nuclear disarmament as the pivotal foreign policy objective , be it FMCT or a general discussion on nuclear disarmament . Over the last two years we have experienced an uncomfortable ambience of uncertainty in the Conference on Disarmament , but my delegation takes some solace from the fact that under you , Mr. President , we are still trying to be upbeat in our efforts to bring an end to this troubling reality . The PRESIDENT : I thank very much the representative of Japan . I am really moved by his words and encouraged to try to come to an agreement in this which is the last leg of my presidency . Is there any other delegation which wants to take the floor ? That does not seem to be the case . As you are aware , during the last few days , I have intensified consultations aimed at promoting consensus on the Programme of Work of the Conference on the basis of the ideas which I presented to all of you . I am encouraged by the fact that all delegations considered those ideas as a basis for further intensified consultations . I take the point made yesterday by several distinguished ambassadors that , at this stage , a basis for further intensified consultations is not good enough . I shall revert to this item later . I convened informal open-ended consultations yesterday with the purpose of ascertaining whether further progress can be made on a consensus decision on the Programme of Work . I was pleased to see that there was wide support from a broad cross-section of nations from different regions , different geopolitical situations , to my efforts , and I was also pleased to see the readiness displayed by all delegations to work towards compromise . Therefore , as I announced yesterday in the presidential consultations , it is my intention to suspend this plenary meeting and to convene in 10 minutes an informal open-ended consultation to discuss the ideas I have been working on . But before doing so , if you allow me a lighter note , I will mention to you that a friend of mine , who is actually our Ambassador in South Africa , recently gave me an old book called "" Legends of the United Nations "" . It was a collection by I believe a British author , Frances Frost , of legends of almost all the nations that were then comprising the United Nations written just after the Charter was approved in San Francisco . One of the legends that came across to me , which I think is especially significant to what we are living today ( and I will not mention the country from where the legend is in order not to be misinterpreted in my purpose in mentioning the legend ) . It goes more or less as follows : Once upon a time there was a king and a princess , and the king wanted the princess - a very beautiful princess - to get married , but the condition was that the suitor should bring a blue rose . Well , a blue rose does not exist . So there were several suitors , merchants , warriors and others , and they tried different solutions . One brought a beautiful crystal ball with a blue rose inscribed in it . Another one tried a silk rose . Another one tried just to dye , to use a blue dye in a white rose , so that also he could be accepted . But of course none of these tricks was accepted . But in the end there was another one who came with a white rose . He just plucked a white rose and brought it to the palace . The king and the princess considered the suitor and thought that he was a worthy gentleman and that the marriage could be a good one , so the king and the princess , to the astonishment of all those who were present , said : "" Well , here we have a blue rose "" . And they lived happily ever after . The meeting was suspended at 10.20 a . m . and resumed at 12.15 p. m . The PRESIDENT : We resume our formal meeting . We have just failed in approving a Programme of Work for the CD . There is nothing extraordinary about this . This has actually been the pattern for several months and years . Failure is apparently now part of our routine . We all have to reflect on the causes of it and how to overcome it . I do not think this is the appropriate time to draw lessons . Certainly , in my case , any analysis that I would try now would be tinged with a sense of personal frustration and emotions are not good counsellors for rational thinking . I may come back to that sometime in the future from the bench of Brazil . I do not need to explain either the gist of my efforts , how I tried to explore ambiguities in a positive way , how I tried to test the limits of the possible . My text will speak for itself , with its possible merits and obvious shortcomings . I am asking the secretariat to circulate it as a CD document , not because I am under any illusion that what was considered as a basis in the last days will still be a basis in four or five months' time , but I thought in any case it would be useful to have that text as part of our records to show the general direction of the efforts we made collectively . At least it will demonstrate we did not give up easily . As to the future of the CD , it is under great doubt . The CD is a tool , and a tool that is not used gets rusted . Will it be a tragedy if , as some have already even mentioned here , the CD disappears ? I honestly do not know . Whatever will be deemed collectively indispensable by those who detain the power of destruction and annihilation will be done bilaterally , trilaterally , plurilaterally . But for those of us who rely on multilateralism , on the power of rational persuasion , and do not dispose in the same proportion - either because they can not or do not want to have the force of arms , actual or potential - there will be a great loss . The system of world governance , if I may use that word in a vital area such as security , will be tremendously impoverished . I hope it is not too late to prevent that from happening . There is a positive side to those efforts that we all undertook , despite the fact that they did not succeed : the way we worked together , trying to look for reasons to be optimists in the midst of so many factors is encouraging . Clearly - and this was the case yesterday and today in the informal meetings - I received from a cross-section of the membership great support not only for my efforts but also for my proposal as a basis for a consensus . And even from the others , who could not at least explicitly join these expressions , I received loyal , faithful support , and I am glad that they were able to agree that my non-paper was a basis for further consultations . This engagement , which existed all along , shows that cynicism and unreasoned pessimism have not , or at least not yet , taken over the CD . I would like in this connection to quote from Amartya Sen , the famous Nobel Prize winner's recent essay in the New York Review of Books : "" Unreasoned pessimism masquerading as composure based on realism and common sense can serve to ' justify ' disastrous inaction and an abdication of public responsibility "" . Let us not succumb to it . Finally , I wish to express once again my sincere appreciation for the invaluable support I received from Group Coordinators , as well as all other colleagues and their respective delegations , through these actually two months of presidency . I am also grateful to the Secretary-General of the CD , Mr. Petrovsky , and his deputy , Mr. Bensmail , for the way in which ( The President ) they put at my disposal their vast experience and expertise . I also want to thank the staff of the CD , as well as the interpreters . Finally , I am deeply indebted to my collaborators for their hard work and advice and , more importantly , the optimism they shared with me in the course of the Brazilian presidency of the CD . The Russian Federation has asked for the floor . Mr. SIDOROV ( Russian Federation ) ( translated from Russian ) : Thank you , Mr. President . I have asked for the floor to thank you for your words of condolence on the occasion of the tragedy that struck the Russian nuclear submarine Kursk . Your condolences will be conveyed to the Russian Government and to the families of the crew members . The PRESIDENT : Thank you . No other requests for the floor ? The next plenary meeting of the Conference will be held on Thursday , 31 August 2000 , at 10 a . m . The meeting rose at 12.25 p. m ."	Opinion/Argumentation
1331	Building a disabled vehicle The disabled vehicle is all but invisible on the road these days because , surprise , surprise , it not only looks just like any other car , it really is like any other car ! You could n't spot it from Adam , whether travelling down the motorway or going to the doctor's surgery , or while doing the weekly shop at your local supermarket . And believe it or not , there are actually tens of thousands of wheelchair accessible vehicles on the roads of the UK on any particular day of the week . Surprised ? You should n't be . It 's been happening unnoticed by the able-bodied community for years , the conversion process which turns an ordinary car into one which a disabled person can make use of or even drive with ease . There are many companies across the country who not only do this work on a daily basis , but have been doing so for years , building a tremendous level of expertise in the process . Wheelchair accessible vehicle Let 's get one particular term out of the way right from the off . You may have come across it before – wheelchair accessible vehicle . Maybe not . It 's a bit of a mouthful , let 's face it , so it 's often shortened to the acronym WAV . It simply refers to a disabled vehicle capable of taking on board a person sitting in a wheelchair . The wheelchair user can be the actual driver of the car , because of all the adaptations available making this possible , or simply be the passenger , driven around by an able-bodied person whenever needed . It is possible to set up either scenario given the huge advances in the design of disabled vehicles nowadays . All WAVs start out as a ' base ' vehicle , the commercial version of the car anyone might buy from their local car dealer's showroom . Of course , not every vehicle is suitable for conversion into a WAV because of the extra safety requirements involved when carrying a wheelchair user . Safety is paramount and therefore an extremely rigorous program of testing is first carried out on any vehicle showing potential . Every aspect is examined , from road holding and engine performance to the amount of space available to both the wheelchair user and anyone else who might be on board . But no matter the vehicle , WAVs tend to have the same sorts of features , such as a means to allow the wheelchair user to get into and out of the vehicle with the minimum of fuss . This is usually achieved by means of a small ramp , normally fitted at the back , which is designed to be deployed easily and then stored away as unobtrusively as possible . The angle the ramp makes with the ground is crucial because the steeper it is , the more difficult it will be for the wheelchair user to go up and down it . A shallow angle is often achieved because part of the conversion process involves a lowering – and strengthening – of the vehicle's floor , necessary to take the extra weight of the wheelchair . And naturally , once inside , the wheelchair has to have a system to securely lock it into place .	Information/Explanation
875	"Ulster Unionist Assembly Member for Mid-Ulster , Billy Armstrong MLA has pledged his full support for London's bid to host the 2012 Olympic Games claiming that , "" all Regions of the United Kingdom would benefit economically and culturally were the bid to be successful . "" In a statement Billy said : "" On the 6 th July 2005 , the International Olympic Committee will name the City chosen to host the 2012 Olympics . It is being widely speculated that London and Paris will be in the final shake-up . "" I pledge my full support for London's bid and I ask that the people of the United Kingdom do likewise . A dedicated website has been up and running for some time , www.london2012.org . The public can demonstrate their support for London's staging of the games via logging onto the website and giving their details and messages of support . "" The Northern Ireland people have already demonstrated their enthusiasm for the bid when it was found in a recent poll that 87 % of those surveyed supported the London bid , the highest of all UK Regions . "" The United Kingdom Nation has the necessary infrastructure in place to host such a world spectacle . Throughout the UK Regions is located some of the most state of the art sports facilities to be found anywhere in the world . There can be no boubt that the United Kingdom would do the Olympic Games the justice they deserve . "" Our Nation's people are passionate about sport . It is the medium which has fostered relationships within and between peoples . Our hosting of the Olympic Games would be a natural extension of the excellent work already completed . "" I urge you , the people of the United Kingdom to make your voices heard in the coming weeks , provide the added push London's bid requires . The benefits for all citizens of the United Kingdom are substantial , we should not squander the chance of demonstrating to the world what we , as a Nation can provide . """	Promotion
326	We are currently seeking to recruit an Air Conditioning & Refrigeration Engineer . Duties to include : carrying out maintenance , service , and repair to a variety of Air Conditioning & Refrigeration equipment on a large static site . The ideal candidate will have experience in a similar role , will hold relevant City & Guilds Qualifications , and will posess an up-to-date Safe Handling of Refrigerants card . A full driving licence is also essential . This position is intially being offered on a temporary basis , with a view to a permanent position . This company have work for around five years on this site , and are looking for an engineer	Promotion
1289	How to Motivate and Counsel Your Sales Force Lead from the Front with Respect-Building Attention to Your Team's Concerns The salesperson personality is unique . Managing salespeople effectively requires motivating and counseling them on a far more elevated level than ordinary employees need . A powerful way to meet this sales management challenge is to create a highly motivated work environment . To help a strong performer to get past a slump , the soft approach is most likely to succeed . Question the salesperson as to where you have failed , rather than making intrusive demands to know what 's wrong with him or her . Lead from the front with respect-building attention to your team's concerns . Driving from the rear with the whip of intimidation probably never worked well ; today it makes building and retaining a strong sales team virtually impossible .	Instruction
299	Looking back at your childhood what are the earliest memories of how the washing was done ? With a scrubbing board in a tin tub , and a dolly peg in a tub , boiling in the cellar with a fire underneath the water container . Also there were conveniences for the general public at that time . The city were I lived had a lot of baths and wash houses . They were combined with the public swimming baths and they gave the service of letting people go along to use their machines , which were huge . And you could often see people with prams pushing them down the streets with ... In those days potatoes used to come in big wicker baskets , and they 'd have a wicker basket in this pram and all the family washing . As much as they could possibly get in that wicker basket was put in there , and they wheeled it to the nearest public wash house and baths , and when it came back it was dry-ish , rather than having wet washing hanging around the house , as it would have been if it had been done in the house . You mentioned a dolly peg , what was that ? Yes , a dolly peg it was a little bit ... It was , I suppose , about 4 foot high , a little bit like a milking stool at the bottom , with a long pole in the centre , two handles at the top and you agitated it : a manual agitator . And for the very dirty bits on the working shirts , or whatever there was , you 'd have a scrubbing board . And that would stand in the water and you would put the dirty part , like the collar or the cuffs , and you would rub the soap over it and get a scrubbing brush and scrub it like that . And you knew when it was wash day because you walked in and you could smell the boiling washing , the washing that had been boiled up , even if it was in the cellar ... steam everywhere . Wet clothes hanging around forever , no dryers unless of course , you know , it was a fine day . If it was a fine day they would all get pegged out on the line . Did you used to have a mangle ? Oh yes . Now you needed strong arms for that because they were ... the big mangles were very , very heavy . Cast iron and great big thick wooden rollers . Instead of soap powders , you did n't use the soap powders we have today , so what sort of things did you use ? Well , it was carbolic soap ... Right ... or green soap sometimes . I can remember Fairy , green soap coming in . Before that it was just carbolic soap . Or those who could afford it had , I think , soap flakes perhaps : soap that had been specially flaked . But it just depended on what your income was , as to what you could afford . And then of course , a little bit later on there came the Rinso . You 've heard of Rinso have n ' t you ? It was the forerunner of all the powders . Oh , right ... Rinso ... Can you remember how any of these smelt , did they have a distinct smell or ... ? Yes , which is indescribable unless you 've smelt it yourself ! I suppose the nearest thing would be to a steamy bath . So it did n't smell nice , did n't make the clothes smell nice , it was just to clean them basically ? What was to clean them ? The soap it ... they did n't smell nice ... it was just ... Oh yes , it was a good clean smell , Yes it was good clean smell . OK . When washing machines were first invented , how long did it take for you to have one in your family , and how did this changed things ? My parents never had one , never had one . And I did n't get a washing machine until the mid fifties . How did that change ? Oh , it made a big difference , but it was n ' t an automatic . Well , what did it look like , and what did you have to ... how did it work ? Well , they worked on the same principle as they work now , with electricity . But my first one was only so big , very tiny , and it had a rubber mangle on the top ; and that was made by Hoover . And how did they differ from the ones they have today ? Oh well , the ones you have today ... there 's just no work . You just throw them in , p ress a button when you 've set the ... whatever you want , and walk away . It 's taken off your hands . In comparison , it used to take a day to do the family wash . Now you can do the equivalent in a couple of hours , all washed and ironed and dry , all out of the way . It saves hours of work . Before you had Hoovers what would you use to clean the floors ? I wondered if you 'd thought of that one . Brushes : You would sweep them with stiff brushes . And if they were very dusty , they used to have a trick of having damp tea leaves , and you 'd strew them on the carpet , all over , and that would kill the dust as you brushed . Oh right - I never knew that ! Or if the carpet ... and you remember in those days not many people - well very few - had fitted carpets . In fact I ca n ' t remember ... I ca n ' t think of anyone . They were usually big carpets or rugs . If they were small rugs they would go out over the line and you 'd beat them with a beater . Did you ever have , did you get , a Hoover eventually when they came out ? Oh yes . That obviously made things easier , but what did they look like ? Well , the first Hoovers I remember were very , very heavy in weight for me , and not unlike the traditional shape they still are , except they were made in stainless steel , I suppose , but they ... of course , by that time a lot of people had carpets all over the house , and it did make a difference . When was that roughly ? Roughly towards the end of the thirties . Right , OK , what were your earliest memories of television ? My earliest memories , Oh gosh ! I suppose the first time I ever watched television was at the year of the Coronation . Like most people , unless you were very , very wealthy , you could n ' t afford a television and the only ... The first time I watched television was on a friend's television , where we were invited to go and watch the coronation . And it was a very tiny little screen perhaps from there to there . [ Gestures a few centimetres . ] And it was , I think , in a very long , tall cabinet ... Of course , in those days your eyesight quite a lot better than it is after so many years . And it was all right and because it was new and we 'd nothing to compare it to , except the cinema , which , of course , every one was used to . You were aware that it was only tiny , but because it was contained within a room it was acceptable . Now-a-days they 're used for recreational use , you just switch on and watch it ; but how does that differ from what you used to do ? I mean , you said you were invited round , so you obviously did n't get a choice of what you watched ? Oh , very limited . In fact , I do n't think they broadcast for quite a lot of the day . You see , not owning one for a long , long time , I was n ' t aware of what programs there were ; but I have a feeling that they were very , very short hours ... mostly towards the evening time , nothing in the day particularly the mornings . But I suppose they had coverage at some stages for big events , but I really could n ' t answer that one . So , when was the first time you got a television in the family ? Once again I would say the middle fifties , and that would be ... ( How many years after they sort of came out ? ) 18 nearly 20 years after they first . You see , they only broadcast , did n't they , in the London area to begin with before the war ? Well , I was living up North , and I do n't think we had the television set up in that part of the world until after the war . I 'm not sure about that though . Before television , what technology was there to entertain you and your family ? Oh the radio , technology . I would say , all I can think of is the radio . It all depended in those days on what level of society you were . Some people had cars , they could go out riding . But if you could n ' t afford a car , well you could n ' t afford a car , and that was it . In the home the radio certainly had got more or less established in everyone's home . What did they look like , and how did they work ? Well , like anything else it started off , I suppose , with dials and headphones . They had a box and they had headphones and they had dials to bring it in and get the wave band . Those were the very ... That was my memory of the very earliest radio that I can remember ; with sitting watching my father twist the dials . And then , of course , we got ... As it improved , then you could just switch on and you even got places on the dial saying ... It would pick up places from Europe which was fantastic , you know . Was n ' t just within the country . But I am sure you will be able to get a lot of information from radio buffs who 'll be able to give you all the details , but those are my earliest memories . There was one other thing , the gramophone : and the earliest one I remember was one of those where you turn the handle and had a great big horn . With His Master's Voice ... and they were portable . This was portable , and you had , I suppose you had , a few selected records and played them constantly . In fact we used to take ours into the air raid shelter , when we had to sit in the air raid shelter at night ... It was a communal one . And the gramophone used to be taken in religiously , and it would play the records and people would ... everyone was smoking their heads off : the place was like a tap room . And suddenly , when you heard the aircraft coming , the first thing we 'd do was take the record off and sit and listen . Listen to the planes ... Listen to the planes ... and wait for the bombs to go over ... hear the swish of the bombs . But yes gramophones was another one , if you were lucky enough . OK . How old were you when you first got a telephone In your family ? Well , I suppose mid fifties , in the last century , in the mid fifties again ... when we first got our ... yes early fifties . But it was n ' t ... you did have access to phones ... Quite a number of people had them already in their houses , so I was not like some people who had never had access to using a phone . Some people were afraid of using phones because they 'd never been used to using them . How did they differ from the ones today , the touch ones ? Oh , I think the dialling , of course , was the main thing ; and obviously you had you had several different kinds . There was the hand held one and you also had the one that had it hooked on to the side , where you lifted the earpiece and spoke into the speaker . But you 've seen them all on films . You 've got record of them in old films , you know . If you keep your eyes open , you 'll see all varieties of them . But there was no touch telephones ; no , nothing like that . Was it expensive to use the telephone ? I would say for the time , very little difference , very little . And did it bring the family closer together ? I mean , you could communicate easier ? That was good , because even if both ... all members of the family did n't have a phone , it did mean that there would be a point at which they could all come together . It meant that communication was n ' t as difficult . Yes . With cooking appliances changing over the years , first you had the Aga , then the cooker and then the microwave , how did the introduction of microwaves effect your family ? It did n't , because they never had one ! It 's affected mine fantastically , wonderful . I think one of the best inventions out , but what came before the Aga ? Have n ' t got a clue , I do n't know , have n ' t got a clue . What came before the Aga ? Not everyone had an Aga . Was it called a range ? A fire range . If you were lucky enough , some houses had fireplaces where they had an oven beside it , where they cooked . Some people did n't even have that , and they had little hobs on the grates , on the fire , and they turned the hob over the fire and cooked on the fire . Did n't have a cooker , kettles too always used to sit beside the fire or hang over the fire on a hook . When you first got a microwave , how did you feel about them ? There are stories that some people were scared of them because of the waves they let out . Did it bother you ? It did n't bother me because I reasoned that it would n ' t be allowed to be sold unless it had been fully tested ; and if you 're sensible and careful . But of course , remember , it had been invented and had been used in America many years before became popular in England . So we did have that knowledge , before it was more or less introduced on a big scale in this country . Very few places actually sold microwaves for quite a while , but they were used a lot more in America for years before that . OK , central heating . Can you remember when it first came out and how did you heat the house before ? Before central heating : fires hot water bottles , loads of clothes , closed windows . And did you have an open fire in every room , or just one that heated the whole house ? Unless you were poorly , then you had one in your bedroom . Did you ever work in an office or anything like that ? Yes . And how did technology change , I mean typewriters and things like that , how has that change ? Well , I was n ' t in that kind of a situation and it was n ' t for a long , long period so I could n ' t answer that one . OK , computers : what do you think of them do you have one ? I have n ' t got one , but I am like people who were first introduced to the unknown : probably have n ' t bothered because I am just a little bit afraid that I will make a fool of myself , and that 's really the top and bottom of it . Those who have confidence in new things just go all out ; and it depends too on your need . Well I 've not needed a computer since they sort of , you know , have just become so popular . But I 'd certainly like to have a go now . Now that I 've got time and it does n ' t matter , there 's no pressure . OK . Before electricity , how would you light the house and what happened when lighting was introduced ? Well before electricity , which was wonderful , there were several stages of lighting . Candles I can recall using as a child to light my way to bed , on a candlestick . Oil lamps , which had to be trimmed and cleaned and paraffin bought for them ; and kept in absolute pristine condition because the fumes from the paraffin lights could have been dangerous . So those were the first two forms of lighting that I recall . Then town gas came in ; and if you were lucky enough you you had a house with gas supplied . Usually there was a centre light , almost like an electric light positioning and this , of course , was in the main room ; perhaps not every room , but once the gas was in the house I think most rooms did have it on little side brackets in certain rooms , but the main rooms had a middle , centre light . And you used to have ... you used to have to buy what they called mantles ; and they were terribly delicate . They were small shaped , rounded with almost , I suppose , a clay type top . And you had to put them on to the ... where the gas came out , and carefully put them round to make them hold , almost like a bulb ... and if you were n ' t careful even blowing on them sometimes would break them . So they were very delicate . And then you 'd turn the gas on . It could have been a tap that screwed in , it could have been a lever where you had like a swing , a see-saw , where you pulled it down one side and it would bring the gas out and you turned / pulled it the other and that would turn the gas off . You would then light it with either a taper or with a match , and then it would give the light . I think that went on for quite a while . Now you see , the gas obviously was introduced in some houses in the 1800's , but some houses did n't even have gas until 20's . A lot of people lived in houses that did n't even have town gas , but that was n ' t the general rule ; most people by that time had . So then , of course , you could ... you could then get electricity put in once the mains had been put in . And how they did that by taking the gas out and replacing it with electricity I do not know . But they did do that , they converted gas lit houses into electrically lit houses .	Opinion/Argumentation
366	"mainland Europe . Before you know it you could be rubbing shoulders with Claudia Schiffer in Majorca , Elton John in the south of France or Madonna and Cliff Richard in Portugal . But if you 're buying as an investment , you 'll have to wait some time before you make a profit as prices rise more slowly on the Continent than they do in the UK . Another option is letting through an agent when you 're not using your holiday home . Property in ski resorts can be particularly profitable when used in this way . And remember that even though property is cheaper , the purchase process is more expensive than at home , adding 10 to 15 per cent to the initial price . Add to that renovation costs and the expense of getting there and you 'll end up paying substantially more . "" Contact your lender to find out costs because they do vary considerably from country to country , "" says David Wells of Abbey National France . "" And budget before you commit yourself . Do n't buy on impulse . Instead , take time to look around and compare and contrast prices . "" Just like buying in the UK , it 's vital to do your research first . Check local services like doctors , schools and transport , and look into the taxes , especially if you 're planning to live there full-time . It 's also a good idea to find out what the weather's like off-season . The most popular areas to buy in France include the Cote d ' Azur , alpine ski resorts and Normandy . Italy is more expensive , especially the popular Tuscany and Umbria regions . And in Spain the Costa del Sol remains the number-one choice for British buyers , followed by the Costa Blanca and the Balearic and Canary Islands . Sales go through much quicker on the Continent . Legally-binding contracts are usually signed within one to two weeks so make sure you have all the financial and legal details sorted out in advance . Abbey National , Barclays , the Woolwich and the Norwich and Peterborough all offer loans on property overseas . Or you could go through a British broker like John Charcol who can put you in touch with a local mortgage provider . Your lender will also help you set up a local bank account . Or if you 've paid off a chunk of your home in Britain , you can remortgage and use the released equity to buy overseas . Remember that if you borrow in sterling and then convert the cash , there may be a currency risk as conversion rates can change overnight . It could be a better idea to borrow in euros so that if the currency does depreciate , at least the mortgage will , too . A local , bilingual solicitor can help the whole process go smoothly . Your lender should be able to suggest one . Notary fees are unlikely to be much more than five per cent of the value of the property in France , Spain , Italy or Portugal . However , your lawyer might collect stamp duty and tax direct , so it might look like more . Estate agents' fees also vary , and they usually charge the buyer rather than the seller . But your first step should be to take advice from experts like Abbey National ( freephone 0800 449 090 ) . Alternatively , visit a Homes Overseas exhibition . Call 020 7939 9852 for more details . THE KINSELLAS : MALAGA TONY Kinsella and his wife Elizabeth , from Molesworth , Cambridgeshire , have just bought a villa near Malaga in Spain for £ 146,000 . They have two children , Leanne , eight , and Vaughan , five . IT 'S always been our dream to buy overseas and we 'll eventually retire there - but for now it 's a holiday home . We bought about a month ago and have already had a two-week holiday there , although we spent most of the time hanging curtains and fitting carpets . We needed to move quite quickly when we saw the house . We had enough to pay the deposit and we sorted out a mortgage with the Norwich and Peterborough building society as soon as we got back . We borrowed about £ 70,000 and it all went through their Gibraltar office . Our rate is 5.74 per cent and we have a five-year fixed deal . It 's remarkably simple if you take the same precautions as you would at home . You need a good solicitor and must make sure your finances are sorted . Friends recommended a Spanish lawyer who speaks perfect English . All the documents were translated and verified before we signed . Elizabeth and the kids will spend the school holidays there and I 'll join them as much as I can . The kids are even learning Spanish . THE BUCKLES : DORDOGNE NEVILLE and Kirsten Buckle , from Swindon , Wilts , bought a gite in the Dordogne , France , three years ago for £ 72,000 . They have two children , Morgan , two , and Imogen , 18 months . WE did n't have any particular reason for choosing the Dordogne . We liked France and knew we wanted to buy in the south . We fell in love with the property . We found it through a local agent that advertised in the British press . Once you 've made an offer it 's legally binding , so your finances have to be sorted out beforehand . We could n ' t afford it right out , so we got a mortgage with Abbey National France . You set up an account in the UK and pay into it monthly . They transfer it to a French account and we pay the mortgage in euros . We budgeted £ 350 a month to allow for currency fluctuations . At the moment we pay just £ 330 a month . Luckily my mother-in-law spoke French and Abbey National do all their documents in both languages . You need to do your research - the legal system , inheritance laws and so on . The fees and taxes add 14 per cent on the purchase price . We rent it out during the summer which helps pay the mortgage . If you like red wine and good weather , it 's a great place to be . UK Pages - Vauxhall Zafira Spare Wheel Theft - Holiday Apartments Spain - Website Promotion - Work Advice - Site Map - Spanish Villas - Website design - Wireless networking - Home Shopping"	Instruction
885	how you can help We are currently looking for : Alumni who would be interested in offering current students placements in their organisations . International alumni interested in talking to prospective students in their country about their experience of Greenwich and choosen career path . Alumni who would like to offer careers advice to students . Alumni who would like to mentor a current student . If you are interested in any of these areas please update your interests For more information about ways you can help , please email	Promotion
1033	Use of data from this website is at the user's sole risk . Cranfield University accepts no responsibility for the information contained on this website . In particular , it does not accept responsibility for any inaccuracies , defects or omissions contained on the said website . Cranfield University further accepts no liability for any loss or damage , whether direct or indirect , occasioned by the use of any such information or for any advice given by any person or institution listed herein .	Legal
766	Identification of Prostate Cancer Stem Cells in Hormone Refractory Prostate Cancer ( HRPC ) Prostate Stem Cell Team Section : Section of Molecular Carcinogenesis The mainstay of treatment for prostate cancer that has failed radical local treatment is androgen deprivation therapy . This induces a remission in more than 90 % of advanced prostate cancer patients that lasts for a median of 18 months . With time , however , all patients relapse with hormone refractory disease with an overall median survival of 23-37 months . Our aim is to characterise stem cells within hormone refractory cancer and to determine differences between normal and cancer stem cells that may indicate potential therapeutic targets . We are collecting trans-rectal needle biopsies of the prostate from hormone refractory patients and deriving primary cultures from them . As for normal stem cells , CD133 can be used to isolate cancer stem cells and we are in the process of analysing differences in the gene expression profiles between HRPC stem cells and transit amplifying cells as well as between normal and cancer stem cells . We can then isolate stem cells for analysis and use the cultures and cell lines derived from them to screen for therapeutic targets and as testing tools for drug development . This project is being carried out in collaboration with Johann de Bono , Chris Parker and David Dearnaley in the Section of Medicine .	Information/Explanation
338	28-29 . 8MHz , 90cm Long , 2kW ( 500W RTTY / AM ) Introducing a new range of antennas from Arno Electronics . Available for any band 10m-160m , ML & S stock this exciting new product available for immediate despatch . All antennas are beautifully built and pre-tuned at the factory . Supplied with fixing clamps & clear installation instructions . Easily fine tuned with outer ring sleeve . You will be totally amazed at how well they work . No ATU required . Just plug-in and work ! £ 119.94 ( 177 . 52 ) ( Including : VAT at 17.5 % ) Ex . VAT Price : £ 102.08 ( 151 . 08 ) Arno EH Cobra 15 20 . 7-21 . 7MHz , 90cm Long , 2kW ( 500W RTTY / AM ) Introducing a new range of antennas from Arno Electronics . Available for any band 10m-160m , ML & S stock this exciting new product available for immediate despatch . All antennas are beautifully built and pre-tuned at the factory . Supplied with fixing clamps & clear installation instructions . Easily fine tuned with outer ring sleeve . You will be totally amazed at how well they work . No ATU required . Just plug-in and work ! £ 119.94 ( 177 . 52 ) ( Including : VAT at 17.5 % ) Ex . VAT Price : £ 102.08 ( 151 . 08 ) Arno EH Cobra 20 13 . 8-14 . 8MHz , 90cm Long , 2kW ( 500W RTTY / AM ) Introducing a new range of antennas from Arno Electronics . Available for any band 10m-160m , ML & S stock this exciting new product available for immediate despatch . All antennas are beautifully built and pre-tuned at the factory . Supplied with fixing clamps & clear installation instructions . Easily fine tuned with outer ring sleeve . You will be totally amazed at how well they work . No ATU required . Just plug-in and work ! £ 119.94 ( 177 . 52 ) ( Including : VAT at 17.5 % ) Ex . VAT Price : £ 102.08 ( 151 . 08 ) Arno EH Cobra 30 9 . 9-10 . 3MHz , 90cm Long , 2kW ( 500W RTTY / AM ) Introducing a new range of antennas from Arno Electronics . Available for any band 10m-160m , ML & S stock this exciting new product available for immediate despatch . All antennas are beautifully built and pre-tuned at the factory . Supplied with fixing clamps & clear installation instructions . Easily fine tuned with outer ring sleeve . You will be totally amazed at how well they work . No ATU required . Just plug-in and work ! £ 119.94 ( 177 . 52 ) ( Including : VAT at 17.5 % ) Ex . VAT Price : £ 102.08 ( 151 . 08 ) Arno EH Cobra 40 7-7 . 2MHz , 90cm Long , 2kW ( 500W RTTY / AM ) Introducing a new range of antennas from Arno Electronics . Available for any band 10m-160m , ML & S stock this exciting new product available for immediate despatch . All antennas are beautifully built and pre-tuned at the factory . Supplied with fixing clamps & clear installation instructions . Easily fine tuned with outer ring sleeve . You will be totally amazed at how well they work . No ATU required . Just plug-in and work ! £ 119.94 ( 177 . 52 ) ( Including : VAT at 17.5 % ) Ex . VAT Price : £ 102.08 ( 151 . 08 ) Arno EH Venus 80 3 . 5-3 . 8MHz , 248cm Long , 2kW ( 500W RTTY / AM ) Introducing a new range of antennas from Arno Electronics . Available for any band 10m-160m , ML & S stock this exciting new product available for immediate despatch . All antennas are beautifully built and pre-tuned at the factory . Supplied with fixing clamps & clear installation instructions . Easily fine tuned with outer ring sleeve . You will be totally amazed at how well they work . No ATU required . Just plug-in and work ! £ 199.95 ( 295 . 92 ) ( Including : VAT at 17.5 % ) Ex . VAT Price : £ 170.17 ( 251 . 85 ) Arno EH Venus 155 1 . 913-1 . 933MHz , 248cm Long , 2kW ( 500W RTTY / AM ) Introducing a new range of antennas from Arno Electronics . Available for any band 10m-160m , ML & S stock this exciting new product available for immediate despatch . All antennas are beautifully built and pre-tuned at the factory . Supplied with fixing clamps & clear installation instructions . Easily fine tuned with outer ring sleeve . You will be totally amazed at how well they work . No ATU required . Just plug-in and work ! £ 199.95 ( 295 . 92 ) ( Including : VAT at 17.5 % ) Ex . VAT Price : £ 170.17 ( 251 . 85 ) Arno EH Venus 160 1 . 830-1 . 850MHz , 248cm Long , 2kW ( 500W RTTY / AM ) Introducing a new range of antennas from Arno Electronics . Available for any band 10m-160m , ML & S stock this exciting new product available for immediate despatch . All antennas are beautifully built and pre-tuned at the factory . Supplied with fixing clamps & clear installation instructions . Easily fine tuned with outer ring sleeve . You will be totally amazed at how well they work . No ATU required . Just plug-in and work !	Promotion
1174	My name is yola I 'm single 36 year old mother of 8 who needs help please if u can do anything like a bike or a gift card for my kids , 6 boys 2 girs . Very hard no drivers licence it suspend due to child support . I 'm drowning please help we can work for comunity too in ontario or upland area for volenteerwork thak u from yolanda . Hi everybody , my name is Eli , I 'm 28 and from dallas Texas . I was just released from the hospital a couple weeks ago after being there for almost two months . When I came home I had nothing left . If anybody can help me with clothes , furniture , or electronics please do . It would be a blessing . But the biggest blessing would be a guitar . That was my only escape from reality , it was my therapy and piece of mind . If anybody has a guitar they are willing to donate PLEASE it will change my life tremendously . Thank yall and god bless . My name is Nthabiseng , can anyone please donate us with stationary for 30 kids for next year January , my wish is i want to see all kids who are coming from disadvantages family go to school , anyone who want to help . Hi my name is Ayanda , I am from South Africa , I just finished my studies at bible college and I have a heart of reaching out to disadvantaged communities . I need someone to help me get a tent that will help me in church planting , revivals and crusades . Please help , I serve at LIV village . My email address is [ email removed ] thank you . God bless . Thank you very much for this idea and the site . My name is Sophie from Kenya , i am a Sunday school teacher , and we are struggling to build 5 classes for our church . I am in the fundarising Committee , and i head the logistic and planning sub committee , we have done mini fundarisings in church , sold snacks as Sunday school project towards the developmenet , we have done boot sales .... but the community where i live , alot of people are willing to help , but they have no capacity to do so . I was looking for a site to help ... and i like the sample letters ... I am thinking of approaching the local political leaders . Thank you for the ideas ... anyone who wants to support more is very much welcome . we are a small community church that is getting overwhelmed with the number of children attending . Hello all charity , I am Tum Sovan Panha , single from cambodia , there are 8 people in my family . Nowadays i am studying but my family is poor they have not money enough for my studying . Just want you to help me for studying english because now i am really low english . Contact me by : [ email removed ] I will detail you all later about my story . Thank you reading . In the name of jesus Please help me to finish my small church that god has order , I still heal people at home and give babies to barrenn woman and men , my house is no electric no watter , but full of jesus presnce to cast demon out , satan is source of our pain , there is out there so so many people can not afford any medication that is the raison why jesus died for us so we can be saved with his spirit . Thank you for your donation , and stay blessed in jesus name . My Name is Muhammad and i am 20 years old . i am a student and 3 years ago when i was playing football i received a gun shot and in that i lost my right leg above the knee and after that still am suffering with it , i mean still no one helped me for new prosthetic leg and i want a new leg please if any one can help me please .	Promotion
1318	Sound Pillow represents another way in which the philosophy of holistic healing is used to support the physical , mental and spiritual growth for addicts . Healing Sound Pillow uses a pillow to reproduce sound from any listening device to help addicts to reduce stress and create a sense of balance within and around them . Traditional spiritual and healing practices have recognized the power of sound for thousands of years . Chants , church bells , drumbeats and sung or spoken rituals have been used to alter moods , create different energy states and to facilitate communication with spiritual powers throughout history . The Sound Pillow offers a rewarding alternative therapy that can be integrated into a client's lifelong meditative practice to reduce the stresses of life that addicts all look to escape . The Sound Pillow put one on every client's bed and the new comers will have help dealing with those sleepless nights . The new comer complaint list is as followed : I Ca n't Sleep have Anxiety I mind always races I ca n't focus I feel stressed I ca n't concentrate Fear keeps me up Not knowing my future is making me angry This with many more very confusing conversations are going on in the newly recovered addicts head . Help The Band Stop playing introduce the Sound Pillow to your Addiction Treatment like the other treatment centers around the country . Meta Rockers In Recovery Live	Promotion
1393	Night vision scopes have been a quite significant tool for organizations like law enforcement and the military ever since the technology became available , and night scopes have turn into a big-name item amongst sportsmen as well due to advances and affordability with the tech . nighvision is provided in a number of of sizes and useage from portable products to mounted items . You can find Night scopes in almost every price range imaginable and with certain significantly nice options even . Of course , it is all going to depend on what you will use the scope for as to what you will purchase . Having night vision gives you the ability to see in a dark surrounding . experiencing in the dark is produced achievable by a combination of two approaches , namely : having good enough spectral range , and intensity range . Human vision is limited to a mini portion of the electromagnetic night vision spectrum called the Visible light Spectrum . By improving spectral range , a viewer can take benefit of non-visible possibilities of electromagnetic radiation such as infrared ( IR ) , or ultraviolet radiation ( UV ) . For Security useage , IR radiation is normally used . The military uses nighvision extensively do not should purchase their own gear , we will instead talk a little bit regarding law enforcement , since a number of law enforcement officers do buy their own gear . When an officer purchases a night scope , he has to think of the setting he is going to be operating in , target acquisition , observation , and intelligence gathering capabilities of his nighvision item . He will also have to pay focused to how sturdy the item is too as how it will react to different types of conditions , due to here reliability does count . enough intensity range is only the ability to see with really little quantities of light . Even though the human visual system can detect one photons ( under right conditions ) , this is far from adequate for great night time viewing . over the use of tech ( Electronics ) , the process of ' experiencing in the dark ' ( nighvision ) can be loosely grouped into two subsets : Passive and Active systems . Under these conditions there is so much light that an IR sensitive video Camera can be used without having to purchase any sort of Image Intensifier . alternative kinds of nighvision devices ( NVD ) such us : nighvision Goggles ( or NVG ) , and Thermal Imaging . NVG utilize two eye pieces . Although a number of security cameras employ night scope technology and are adapted regularly by a few security firms , they may also employ night scopes for night time surveillance . As a rule , these kinds of scopes are handheld or mounted on a tripod rather than installed on a firearm . Again , a number of of the facts that these firms require to appraise about when purchasing night units is how confident , sturdy , and conditions resistant they are . The greatest advantage to security firms utilizing nighvision gear is that these units will increase their option to interdict thieves prior to they can wreak their havoc . They can be configured with one Image Intensifier Tube , where the same image is sent to both eyes , or a divided intensifier tube for every eye .	Instruction
638	"Personal stories - Leigh I was diagnosed over 14 years ago now and I was in Holloway for the third time . I was on remand for drug related crime . I think it was for cheque book fraud . I had been tested for HIV before I went in to prison because my boyfriend had found out he was positive . He 'd been very ill and subsequently got his diagnosis . I went for a test but when the results were due , I was already inside . I told the prison about it . I felt that I should . It was an incredibly scary time . It was January 1987 and all I really knew about HIV was what I saw on TV . At the time they were doing that national campaign with tomb stones and HIV = AIDS = Death . Even though I was an intravenous drug user , at that point I did not know anybody else with HIV apart from my boyfriend , so when I was given the results it was still an incredible shock . I was told not to talk about it because they did not want mass hysteria and I was put into isolation . They told me that if anybody were to ask me why , I was to say it was because I had Hepatitis B. I did see someone after being told my test result , for about two minutes . I ca n't remember much about it other than sitting there crying . The only good thing about it was that she offered me a fag . I was not given any information about HIV or AIDS . I just thought that I was going to die pretty soon . At this time I got very ill . I was only seven stone anyway and was withdrawing off heroin . But I think the shock of it gave me really severe gastroenteritis . There was nobody to talk to . Nobody was allowed near me and my food was passed through a hatch . Then , I had to go to court to try and get bail . I did n't get it . The way the prison system works is that you do not then automatically go back into Holloway Prison . I was put into a holding cell in a police station and there , again , nobody was allowed near me . There were a few other people in these cells and I told one of the girls there what had happened . She told the police that I needed some help . I was really sick , but they would n't help me . They eventually sent me back to Holloway , into the hospital bit where I was put into a room with two other people who had just been diagnosed in my absence . So there were three of us together which was a bit better . At least that was some support . But still , the same rule applied ; nobody else was allowed to come near us . I then tried for bail again . At the court I was put into a cubicle instead of the main waiting room with all the other girls . I could hear the Police and prison officers coming in and refusing to take me , saying they had heard about me : "" She 's the one with AIDS and the last van and the last cell she was in had to be fumigated "" ... So the whole experience was sitting there , hearing people talk about the girl with AIDS but nobody actually talking to me about it . After sitting in this tiny cubicle with a closed door for six hours , I eventually got taken in to court . I did get bail . The one good thing that came out of this whole horrific experience was that I really thought hard about my life for the first time ever , I guess because I thought I was going to die . I accepted this but knew one thing : I did not want to die a junkie or in a prison cell , or a victim . That was the first time that anything had come in to my life to make me look at it and change it around . When I came out of prison , I had some really bad experiences . My family were really scared . They did n't know any different . I hasten to add that they are incredibly supportive now and have been for years but at the time they did not want to even pick up their Christmas presents . When I dropped them off , my brother in law asked me not to touch the children . We had bricks thrown through our windows on the estate where I lived with my boyfriend . I 'd told one person , a fellow drug user , thinking they would realise that it could have easily happened to them . I had no idea of the consequences of telling people . Suddenly , everybody knew . We 'd go out to the shops and kids would chant ' Oh , they 're the ones with AIDS . ' People snubbed us . As far as my drug taking was concerned , I went on a methadone prescription but although I had this mini - revelation in prison , it still took me a couple of years to change my life . I was on this script and was just waiting to die really . I did go to a couple of support groups . There was one at Body Positive but I was always the only woman . I remember seeing an AIDS specialist for the first time and asking him how long I had to live . He said he did n't know but he was sure that I stood a better chance if I stopped taking street drugs . At that point I had not stopped taking drugs completely but I 'd certainly cut down and had started to put on a bit of weight . I actually went to my hospital appointments regularly and went to the DDU ( Drug Dependency Unit ) . But my life was worse than it had been because before , it had been a full time job being a junkie , however horrific it was . The last two years had just consisted of getting up , going to the chemist , getting my prescription and that was it . So one day I woke up and knew I just had to stop taking drugs completely . I went into a 12 step treatment centre . Their philosophy was total abstinence and they encouraged me to go to Narcotics Anonymous meetings . I remember the first group that I went to . You have to say : .. "" Hello , my name is .... and I 'm an addict ' and I said .. "" Hello , my name is Leigh . I 'm an addict and I 'm also HIV + . "" I thought I had to be out in the open and I automatically said .. "" So you can all leave the room now . "" ... because that was my experience . Nobody did . They hugged me and it was really nice and I felt really accepted . But that , too , was like a double edged sword . We used to have therapeutic duties to do and one was serving food . I was banned from the kitchen . I did n't mind because I did n't want to peel potatoes but I was confused about being accepted one minute and the next being treated very differently . Quite frankly , without the drugs to cushion it all , being on the programme felt like being diagnosed all over again . But I got through it and then went to a half way house . I got through that too , and from there my life began to change . The reason I got involved with working for AIDS organisations was because of my anger at how I had been treated . I started working at PW in 1991 which was a very empowering experience for me . I had never had my own cheque book before so that was a novelty ! The experience of being responsible , helping other people and contributing helped me to learn and grow . I left PW after three years , as the Services Manager . The main reason was the death of Jaynie , one of the founder members . I went to her funeral and she left a letter saying she was dying really happy . I thought , at the time , in terms of maybe only having a couple of years left . I could n't say that if I died I would be happy . I was burned out and stressed out from working all the time . So I left to have some time for me ."	Opinion/Argumentation
908	"A few days ago , in a galaxy far , far away .... "" How you doing , Carter ? "" "" I 'm fine , sir , "" Sam said as SG-1 walked onto the bridge of the A.S.S. ( Asgard Space Ship ) Daniel Jackson . "" Fifth did n't so much as touch me physically . "" "" What about mentally ? "" Daniel asked with concern . "" He tried , but replicators , even the human form ones , do n't have a real good grasp of the human psyche , "" Sam said . "" He tried ? "" Jack prompted . "" Yes , but he was showing me images of bugs , for heaven's sake , "" Sam said , shaking her head in disbelief . "" I had to put on a bit of a show to convince him that he was really getting to me . "" Bugs ? I do n't like bugs , "" Jack said . "" Yeah , but you would n't go all girly-man about it . "" Sam paused thoughtfully . "" Would you ? "" "" Depends . What kind of bugs ? "" "" Just bugs . Bugs and Unas and ... Montana . "" "" Ah , Montana : where the men are men and the sheep are nervous . "" Sam , Teal ' c and Daniel turned to stare at Jack . "" It 's just an expression , "" Jack muttered , walking away to play with the command console . "" Are you certain you are unharm ... ? "" Teal ' c stopped speaking as the floor shuddered beneath their feet and a long , deep , metallic groan echoed against the ship's walls . "" Jack ? "" Daniel said immediately . "" Was n't me , I swear , "" Jack said , putting his left hand up and his right hand over his heart . "" I mean I have n't eaten anything in , like , weeks . "" "" Thor ? "" Sam called out . "" Yes , Major Carter . "" "" I thought the hull breach was sealed . "" "" It is . "" "" Well , it sure sounds like we 've got a hull integrity problem , "" Sam said as the groaning rumbled through the ship again . "" My sensors show all sections of the ship to be intact , "" Thor said . The commander of the A.S.S. Daniel Jackson beamed into his seat at the command console . Jack jumped , startled by Thor's sudden appearance , and walked away quickly . The ship shivered and groaned again , the sound losing some of its previous metallic quality . "" If I did n't know better I 'd say that sounded almost human , "" Daniel observed . "" It 's a ship , for God's sake , Daniel , "" Jack said . "" Stop anthropomorphizing everything . "" Oh , yeah .... "" What was that ? "" Daniel asked , looking around . "" Or. .. who was that ? "" "" I have discovered the problem , "" Thor announced , running his hands across the console . "" Between the time O ' Neill had the Ancients' knowledge downloaded into his brain and the time he went into stasis , some of his own memories became enmeshed with the Ancients' data . "" "" What exactly are you saying ? "" Sam asked . "" When the ship retrieved the Ancients' knowledge from O ' Neill's mind , some of his personal memories were also downloaded . It is currently attempting to purge O ' Neill's memories from its data banks . "" Yeah , baby , just like that .... "" You mean that this is ... ? "" Daniel began , pointing his finger at Jack . "" Thor ! "" Jack yelped , hurrying back to the command console . "" Thor , buddy--stop it . "" "" I can not . The ship must purge the unnecessary information or it will experience incrementally more severe processing errors . "" Yeah , do it again . Do it . Do me ! "" Jack , I thought you said you did n't remember anything after getting your brain sucked , "" Daniel said . "" Apparently there was more sucking to be had , "" Jack said with a panicked look at Daniel . "" The twins , O ' Neill ? "" Teal ' c asked with one eyebrow hitting his hairline as the ship ... writhed . "" God , I hope not , "" Jack said . He turned to Thor , pleading desperately . "" Come on , Thor . Hit the mute button . Something . I 'm begging here . "" The ship shuddered hard enough make SG-1 stumble while a deep , wordless moan echoed over and over . And over . "" Okay , "" Sam said , trying to not look at any of the men in the room . "" I think maybe it 's ... over . "" "" No , it 's not , "" Daniel said distractedly . He froze when he realized everyone was looking at him . "" I mean ... I 'm guessing it 's not . Even at Jack's age that 's a little quick and I 'll just be over here in the corner minding my own business . "" "" You say that this memory was made while O ' Neill had the Ancients' knowledge in his brain ? "" Teal ' c asked Thor . "" That is correct . "" "" You were having sex while we were working our butts off trying to save you and the Earth ? "" Sam asked indignantly . "" I was dying , "" Jack protested . "" What was I supposed to do ? "" "" You were supposed to be finding the Lost City , "" Sam said . "" Yeah , well .... "" Jack paused as the ship shuddered in hard , rhythmic pulses . Now , baby , now , fuck , yes , yessssssssssssssss .... "" Now it 's over , "" Jack said , slapping his hands over his face . "" You are correct , O ' Neill . The ship has successfully purged the useless data , "" Thor said . "" I object to the word ' useless ' , "" Jack mumbled from behind his hands . "" I wish I had a cigarette , "" Daniel said in a vain attempt to lighten the mood . "" I wish I smoked , "" Sam said , surreptitiously fanning herself . "" I wish I had just experienced an orgasm , "" Teal ' c said . Thor just blinked at all of them . "" There 's still room in my corner , "" Daniel said , waving Sam and Teal ' c over to a position of safety . "" Thor , I do n't supposed you could suck that memory out of all of our brains , "" Jack asked , peeking through his fingers . "" I can not . "" "" No , did n't think so . "" Jack turned and headed for the door , his shoulders slumped , weighed by humiliation . "" I 'll just be ... somewhere else . "" "" Well , I do n't know about you guys , "" Daniel said once Jack had left the room . "" But after that I 'm really looking forward to the in-flight movie . "" Back to Eos' Home"	Prose/Lyrical
359	"Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone - J. K. R owling At Burpham , we believe that group reading has significant benefits for Literacy . So what better book to have a mini scheme of work for than JK Rowling's "" Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone "" , the most popular children's book of our day . I have used this with Year 5 , but it could equally be used by Year 4 or Year 6 children , according to their reading ability . Feel free to copy the text and use in your school . Any comments / suggestions would be very welcome . Contact me at the school's email address - head @ burpham . s urrey . s ch. u k Chapter 1 Collect all the ways in which the author tells us how someone is speaking in the conversation between Albus Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall ( pages 13-16 before Hagrid arrives ) . Classify into 3 categories - adverb used , the verb itself , or both together . Imagine a baby is found on your doorstep one morning . What would you do , think , feel ? Chapter 2 List evidence , things she does and things she says , that show Aunt Petunia doesn ' t like Harry . Harry has a chat with the boa constrictor . Write the conversation you would have with a monkey or chimpanzee in a zoo . Chapter 3 Write the letter that someone is trying to send to Harry . Chapter 4 We learn a lot about parents in this chapter . Write about yours - what do they look like , what do they do , what sort of people are they ? Chapter 5 Hagrid has a newspaper , the Daily Prophet . Write / draw a front page for an edition of this paper . Chapter 6 Draw the scene on Platform 9 3 / 4 Write a chapter from the "" The History of Magic "" . Design the packaging for "" Bertie Bott 's Every Flavour Beans "" or "" Drooble's Best Bubble Gum "" . Write a chapter from the book "" Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century "" . Chapter 7 Write out the whole of the ghosts' conversation about Peeves . Write the legend of the third floor corridor on the right hand side . What has happened there in the past which has resulted in the risk of a very painful death for those who go there ? Make up a song about your school in the style of "" Hogwarts , Hogwarts "" . Chapter 8 Write a potion - ingredients , equipment , method - explain what it is for and when you would use it . Draw the inside of Hagrid's home . Chapter 9 What is the naughtiest thing you have ever done deliberately ? Why did you do it ? What happened ? List advantages and disadvantages of being able to fly by broomstick . Chapter 10 Write out a proper , numbered code of rules for Quidditch . Write a mini-story about doing something "" brave and stupid "" . Chapter 11 Hagrid wears a coat made from animal skins . Set out points for and against killing animals . Chapter 12 What would you do if someone gave you a cloak of invisibility ? Chapter 13 What are the good points and the bad points about being able to live forever ? Chapter 14 Turn the passage , on page 169 , from "" when they knocked on the door .. "" to "" .... t rusted enough to help him , apart from you . "" into a playscript . Chapter 15 Centaurs and unicorns are mythical creatures . Make up a new one , describe it in detail and tell the story of how it came to be . Chapter 16 Each room has a challenge to be worked out and overcome . If there had been a room with your spell on it , what would the challenge have been , and how would Harry , Ron and Hermione overcome it ? Chapter 17 Discuss as a class As much money and life as you want .. humans [ have a ] knack of choosing precisely those things which are worst for them . Fear of a name increases fear of the thing itself . Truth is a terrible and beautiful thing . I shall answer your questions unless I have a very good reason not to . To have been loved deeply .... will give us protection forever . It takes bravery to stand up to our enemies , but just as much to stand up to our friends . Review the whole book . Summarise the whole story in three sentences . Write a sentence about each main character , summing up what sort of person they are . Say what you particularly liked and disliked about it , giving reasons and lastly , give the book a mark out of ten overall . David Holmes - 1999 [ Home ] [ What 's New ] [ School Brochure ] [ SATS - OFSTED ] [ Policies ] [ Development Plan ] [ Children's Work ] [ Kids Web ] [ Gallery ] [ Parents Support Group ] [ Diary ] [ For Teachers ] [ Links ] [ Kidzone ] [ Discussion Forum ] [ Sign Our Guestbook ] Page last updated Saturday , 31 August , 2002 Questions or comments related to this site should be emailed to Alex Laing"	Instruction
